Tab 1
Indian Hill High School 
COURSE CATALOG 2026-2027
Dear Students & Parents,
Educational planning is an important activity for all young adults and their families. The Indian Hill High School Course Catalog has been prepared for you by the faculty, Counseling Department, and Administration of Indian Hill High School to assist you in your future academic planning.
This handbook, coupled with the assistance of our professional staff, is designed to facilitate the process of requesting courses and planning your high school years.  Here we list and describe the courses offered by each department, along with information about graduation requirements, fees, and other important aspects of our high school.
Please study the contents carefully.  Your school counselor is the primary contact for both parents and students if a question does arise.
Counselor assignments are based on students’ last names (see the chart below). This structure helps to provide more consistent, individual attention for students and families over the four-year high school period.  Counselors remain with their assigned students from freshman year through graduation.  Please take advantage of their expertise.
We wish you the best in your educational and career planning for the years ahead.  If we can be of further assistance, please do not hesitate to contact us.
Sincerely,
Andy Gruber                                				                              Danielle Lintz       	 
Principal                                                                     				 Assistant Principal
Indian Hill Schools
Statement of Purpose
The Indian Hill Schools is a community of learners, dedicated to the intellectual development, personal growth and social responsibility of each student.
Statement of Beliefs
We believe in a community of learners that supports the dignity and growth of all its members, including students, staff, and parents. In a community, members work together for the common good, display concern for others, and respect differences.
We believe in inquiry as the key educational enterprise, encompassing curiosity, love of learning,    
                 intellectual discipline, core knowledge and skills, and the search for meaning.
3.	We believe in the individual as a changing person, capable of learning and growing throughout life.
4.	We believe that responsible citizens apply what they know for the benefit of others, through service, 
                 leadership, and active participation.
5.	We believe we must prepare ourselves to live and work in a context of constant change: technology,    
                global interdependence, and cultural diversity transform our present, providing crucial opportunities to     
                shape the future.
These five beliefs guide our statement of purpose, our vision for the district, and the specific learning goals for all students.
Operating Principles
Students - To ensure that each student meets or exceeds state proficiency requirements, achieves at or  above expectancy, and makes progress toward standards of excellence.  Results - Initiative and Responsibility; Service; Participation; Leadership
Faculty - To ensure that each member of the faculty creates motivating and challenging schoolwork, attends to the diverse learning needs of students, and participates in a program of continuous professional development.  Results -Preparation and Development; Quality Instruction; Quality Curriculum
Parents and Community - To ensure that each parent participates as an active partner and that each community member becomes a knowledgeable supporter of school programs.  Results - Academic Partnership with Parents; Active Community Support
Environment - To ensure that District support services, policies, procedures, and the learning environment all contribute to student learning in a safe, efficient, and cost‑effective manner.
Results - Healthy, Safe, Orderly Environment; Positive School Climate
INDIAN HILL HIGH SCHOOL
6865 Drake Road
Cincinnati, Ohio 45243
(513) 272‑4550
Table of Contents 
Part One: General Information
Part Two:  Course Offerings
Appendices                  	
Indian Hill High School Requirements
Graduation Requirements
Minimum Academic Requirements = 22.0 credits PLUS Community Service Requirement
COMMUNITY SERVICE REQUIREMENT OF 60 HOURS
This credit is awarded in conjunction with the student’s social studies classes.
Additional Graduation Requirements for the State of Ohio 
Indian Hill High School Graduation Requirements
IN ADDITION TO MEETING CREDIT REQUIREMENTS, STUDENTS MUST ALSO:
SHOW COMPETENCY
Students show competency by earning a passing score on Ohio’s high school Algebra I and English II tests. Students who do not pass the test will be offered additional support and must retake the test at least once. 
If testing is not a student’s strength, after retaking the tests students can show competency by 
	Option 1: Demonstrate two career-focused activities 
	Option 2: Enlist in the military
	Option 3: Complete college coursework
SHOW READINESS
Students show readiness by earning two of the following diploma seals, choosing those that line up with the student’s goals and interests. These seals give you a chance to demonstrate academic, technical and professional skills and knowledge that align to your passions, interests, and planned next steps after high school. 
OhioMeansJobs Readiness Seal
Industry-recognized Credential Seal
College-Ready Seal
Military Enlistment Seal
Citizenship Seal
Science Seal
Honors Diploma Seal
Seal of Biliteracy
Technology Seal
Community Service Seal
Fine and Performing Arts Seal
Student Engagement Seal
Credit Requirements
A minimum of 22 units of credit is required for graduation. A unit is equal to a year's work in a subject that requires the equivalent of five class sessions per week. Credits will be reviewed for acceptance as transfer credits.
Class Status
Students who are enrolled in Freshman English and/or have completed less than 4.5 credits are considered freshmen.  Students who have earned 4.5 credits and have completed and received credit for Freshman English are considered sophomores.  Students who have earned at least 10 credits and have completed and received credit for Sophomore English are considered juniors.  Students who have earned at least 15.5 credits and have completed and received credit for Junior English are considered seniors.
Waiver of a Recommended Course
Teacher verifications are based upon a student’s effort, ability, and achievement during the school year.  Parents are advised to contact the teacher or counselor when any questions arise concerning selection and/or verification of course requests.  If a student and/or parents want to register for a course, which is not recommended, they assume responsibility for completing the course.  A waiver must be obtained from and returned to the student’s counselor.
Students Who Transfer Into IHHS
The credit status of students transferring into Indian Hill High School will be evaluated as soon as possible upon entry.  Under certain circumstances, the principal may make adjustments in the graduation requirements for a transfer student.  This would also apply to students who are part of a foreign exchange program - in most instances; foreign exchange students do not receive a diploma from Indian Hill High School.
Policy for Retaking a Course Previously Attempted and Passed
In the case where a student is not recommended to continue to the next level of a course in the same subject area, retaking the prerequisite course may be considered after a teacher, parent, student, and counselor consultation and with administrative approval.  When a student is permitted to retake a course, the following conditions will apply:
Only original credit may be earned for the same level course (additional credit will not be granted).
The original grade and credit earned from the course will appear on the report card and transcript.
Upon completion of the course the second time, credit will be removed from the original course, but the grade will remain.
Credit will be granted for the retaken course.
The grade earned for the retaken course will also appear on the grade card and transcript.  Only this grade and credit will figure into the grade point average.
Other Educational Options
Additional educational options are offered to meet specialized student needs or interests. These options are in the form of online courses, educational travel, independent study (see special guidelines below), mentor programs and tutorial programs. These must be approved in advance by the building principal. See your counselor for details.
PE Waiver
Students will be able to apply for a PE Waiver.  This waiver allows a student to be exempt from the state of Ohio requirement to complete 0.5 credit (2 semesters) of Physical Education.  When utilizing a waiver, students must complete two full seasons as a member of an Indian Hill High School athletic team, Cheerleading, or Marching Band.  Students that utilize the waiver do not receive credit for PE, so they must ensure that they still meet IHHS requirements to complete 22 credits to be approved for graduation.
College Credit Plus
See your counselor for information on dual enrollment options outside of Indian Hill High School. 
Credit Flexibility
See your counselor for information on Credit Flex opportunities. Additionally, click this link for the Credit Flex Application.
Advanced Placement (AP)
Advanced Placement courses offer students the opportunity to receive college credit for work completed in high school. Students taking AP courses are required to take the AP exam unless granted an exemption by the principal. Indian Hill High School offers Advanced Placement courses in the following disciplines:
*Computer Science Principles is not designated as an AP course, but students who take this class will be prepared to sit for the examination at the conclusion of the year if desired. 
Courses could be canceled if there is insufficient enrollment.
The fee for each AP exam is approximately $95 and is included in the fee for the class. The exam is given during the first two weeks in May and students are required to take the AP exam if they enroll in the course. Examinations are usually three hours in length and are scored on a scale of one to five. Most colleges award credit if a student scores from three to five. However, colleges have individual policies, and a student must contact each college of interest for its particular AP policy. Financial assistance is available for students with need.
Grade Calculations
High School students will earn grades that reward a student’s success in academically rigorous classes and in classes that encourage exploration of a student’s interest.  When calculating the grade point average, Indian Hill High School will award quality points for all courses as follows:  A=4.0, B=3.0, C=2.0, D=1.0, F=0.0
An additional weight of .030 will be added to the grade point average each semester for Advanced Placement courses, providing the student earns a “C-” or above in the Advanced Placement class and takes the Advanced Placement exam.
Senior Project
For more details in regards to the Senior Project, please visit this link. 
College Admissions Guidelines
Counselors are available to assist students in their college searches. Adequate planning and researching allow students to prepare themselves academically for the college of their choice and to apply at the beginning of their senior year. Many colleges, both public and private, recommend these high school courses as minimum requirements for admission.
It is important that students who will be seeking college admissions check the requirements of those schools in which they are interested, since colleges vary greatly in their requirements. College catalogues, college information books, and the Internet should be explored. Students are encouraged to begin researching colleges during their sophomore and junior years.
Applied Technology
Video Production I
Video Production I is an introductory course focused on video storytelling and production fundamentals. Students learn the basics of broadcast journalism and video production through hands-on projects. Instruction includes scriptwriting, camera operation, interviews, basic lighting, audio capture, and non-linear video editing. Students will complete individual and small-group projects and may assist with coverage of school and district events.
This course emphasizes creative production, storytelling, and collaboration while introducing students to professional video workflows. High-quality student work may be eligible for submission to student media competitions such as STN Nationals or regional and national student media awards, including Emmy-affiliated programs.
Students will be introduced to Adobe Premiere Pro and Adobe Photoshop. Industry-Recognized Credentials (IRCs) may be explored but are not the primary focus of this course.
Credit: 0.5         	       	Fee: $15            				Grade: 9‑12
Video Production II 
Prerequisite: Video Production I
Video Production II is an intermediate course designed for students who want to deepen their video production and storytelling skills. Students move beyond foundational techniques and engage in more complex projects such as commercials, music videos, documentaries, news reporting, animation, and advanced editing.
Instruction focuses on creative decision-making, production planning, and technical refinement. Students may work independently or collaboratively and may assist with real-world school productions.
Adobe Premiere Pro, After Effects, and Photoshop are used regularly. Industry-Recognized Credentials (IRCs) are available and encouraged, but production quality and portfolio development remain the primary emphasis. High-quality student work may be eligible for submission to student media competitions such as STN Nationals or regional and national student media awards, including Emmy-affiliated programs.
Credit: 0.5       		Fee: $15 + (OPTIONAL but Encouraged) $79 Test Fee             	Grade: 9‑12
Digital Media Production I 
Digital Media Production I is an introductory course designed for students interested in digital content creation, design, and media careers. Students explore how digital media is used in sports, arts, marketing, and school communications while developing foundational creative and technical skills.
Students will work through Brain Buffet digital media curriculum modules to explore multiple Adobe Creative Cloud applications, including Premiere Pro, Photoshop, and After Effects. The course is intentionally structured to allow students to sample and compare tools, build confidence, and identify areas of interest rather than focus on mastery of a single platform.
Industry-Recognized Credentials (IRCs) are introduced through Brain Buffet, and students may attempt certification practice modules; however, certification testing is optional and not required in this course. Emphasis is placed on skill exploration, creative application, and preparation for advanced coursework.
Additional tools such as Canva and Boxout may be used to support project design and publishing.
Credit: 0.5         	       	Fee: $15            				Grade: 9‑12
Digital Media Production II
Prerequisite: Digital Media Production I or Teacher Recommendation
Digital Media Production II is an independent-study, specialization-focused course designed for students who wish to prepare for Adobe Industry-Recognized Credential (IRC) exams through Brain Buffet. Students will declare an intention to focus on one or two Adobe Creative Cloud applications such as Photoshop, Premiere Pro, or After Effects.
Using the Brain Buffet certification pathway, students progress through targeted curriculum modules at an individualized pace, emphasizing tool mastery, professional workflows, and exam readiness. Portfolio-quality projects are produced alongside certification preparation.
Certification testing through Brain Buffet is strongly encouraged in this course, and students may sit for Adobe certification exams at the conclusion of the term. This course is ideal for students pursuing creative technology, digital design, media, marketing, or related career pathways.
Credit: 0.5         	       	Fee: $15 + (OPTIONAL but Encouraged) $79 Test Fee           	Grade: 9‑12
Braves Beat
Prerequisite: Video Production I, Digital Media I or Teacher Recommendation
Braves Beat is an advanced, lab-style course centered on the production of a weekly student-produced news and entertainment program, Braves Beat. This course serves as a working broadcast environment where students apply and refine skills developed through both the Production/Broadcast Pathway and the Digital Media & Certification Pathway.
Students work in rotating professional roles including producers, directors, anchors, reporters, editors, camera operators, and graphic designers. The course emphasizes collaboration, deadlines, and real-world production workflows, allowing students to “flex” their strengths in video production, graphic design, motion graphics, editing, and storytelling within a live production setting.
Topics include broadcast journalism, studio operations, scriptwriting, news ethics, interviewing, HD camera operation, video editing, motion graphics, and narrative reporting. Students gain experience both on-camera and behind the scenes while contributing content that serves the school community.
Braves Beat is ideal for students who want to apply technical skills, creative design, and leadership in an authentic broadcast setting, regardless of whether their primary focus is production or digital media certification.
Credit: 0.5     		Fee: $15            				Grade: 10-12
Introduction to Engineering Design 
Prerequisite:  Algebra I
Introduction to Engineering is a dual credit course appropriate for students who are interested in industrial design or engineering.  Through multiple projects, students will explore the design process, research, analysis, teamwork, communication methods, product lifecycle, engineering standards, and technical documentation. Students will use state of the art 3D solid modeling design software to design solutions for proposed problems.  Students can receive college credit based on the national PLTW end of course exam.
**This course will be offered as a CCP course if students have satisfied the prerequisite of Algebra I. College Credit Plus students who receive a “C” or better will earn college credit through an accredited college. Students must apply to the college/university and be accepted.  A Letter of Intent and CCP Counseling Resource Packet must be submitted to the Counseling office at IHHS by April 1.
Credit:  1.0                       	Fee: $18           				Grade:  9-12
Principles of Engineering 
Prerequisite:  Introduction to Engineering Design (recommended)
Principles of Engineering is an exploratory course that uses projects to introduce several engineering disciplines.  The course exposes students to some of the major concepts that they will encounter in a postsecondary engineering course of study.  Topics include mechanisms, energy, statics, materials, kinematics and robotics.  Projects include a Rube Goldberg machine, a hydraulic lift, a solar powered car, and a robot.  While working in teams, students will continually hone their interpersonal skills, creative abilities, and problem solving skills based upon engineering concepts.
Credit:  1.0                            Fee: $20                     			 Grade:  10-12
Advanced Engineering
Prerequisite: Principles of Engineering
This course builds upon the traditional engineering disciplines covered in the Principles of Engineering course. This project-based learning experience explores several specialty fields including Aerospace Engineering, Biomedical Engineering, Architecture and Material Science.
Credit: 1.0                              Fee: $20                  			Grade:  11-12
Digital Electronics
Prerequisite: Algebra II
Digital Electronics is the foundation of all modern electronic devices such as cellular phones, MP3 players, laptop computers, and high-definition televisions. In this course students will learn how to solder and breadboard, study Boolean Logic, and design and simulate the circuits commonly used in electronic devices.  The course concludes with a capstone project using the Arduino Microcontroller. This course is ideal for students interested in Computer Science or Electrical Engineering. It is recommended that students are concurrently enrolled in college preparatory mathematics and science courses. Students may be eligible for college credit based on the national PLTW end of course exam.
Credit:  1.0                              Fee: $20                  			Grade:  12
Visual Arts
PROGRAM GOALS
Intellectual Development
Students will explore and discover ideas for art and will be able to transform these ideas through media into a personal expression in the visual arts.
Students will be able to perceive and describe works of art, which will help them to interpret and to judge the visual world.
Personal Growth
Students will explore how artists discover ideas for art in personal experiences and how they transform these ideas to create art by working with media.
Students will explore how art critics and historians perceive, describe, interpret and judge works of art
Social Responsibility
Students will become aware of how society expresses values and beliefs and how it expresses changes in these values and beliefs by working with its technologies to make visual forms.
Students will become aware of how society recognizes, perceives, interprets and judges visual forms.
Drawing and Painting I 
Prerequisite:  none
Drawing and Painting is an entry‑level course, preparing the student for more visual learning in advanced art classes. Students will investigate drawing and painting media and technique. Ability to draw is not required. However, a positive attitude and effort are necessary to be successful. Facilitation will focus on graphic expression of one’s ideas through the use of the elements & principles of design and color theory. Students will work with both traditional and digital tools to develop problem solving and critical thinking skills, visual literacy, creativity, and a personal voice.
Credit: 0.5                        	  	Fee: $30                                            	Grade: 9‑12
Drawing and Painting II 
Prerequisite: Drawing and Painting I
This course is an extension of the media and technique survey that was begun in Drawing and Painting I. Facilitation will continue to focus on graphic expression of one’s ideas through the use of the elements & principles of design and color theory with an even stronger emphasis on creativity and student choice. Students will work with both traditional and digital tools to develop problem solving and critical thinking skills, visual literacy, creativity, and a personal voice.
Credit: 0.5                               	Fee: $30                                     		Grade: 9‑12
Drawing and Painting III 
Prerequisite: Drawing and Painting II or approval of teacher
This course is an extension of the media and technique survey that was developed in Drawing and Painting II. Facilitation will focus on graphic expression of one’s ideas through the use of line, shape, form, color, texture, value and space.  Students will work with both traditional and digital tools to develop problem solving and critical thinking skills, visual literacy, creativity, and a personal voice. 
Credit: 0.5                          	 	Fee: $30                                                        	Grade: 10‑12
Ceramics and Sculpture I
Ceramics and Sculpture is an entry‑level course, preparing the student for more visual learning in advanced art classes. Students will investigate sculpting media and technique. Facilitation will focus on graphic expression of one’s ideas through the use of sculptural and functional ceramics, additive and subtractive construction techniques, and the principles of three dimensional design. Students will develop problem solving and critical thinking skills, visual literacy, creativity, and a personal voice.
Credit: 0.5                          		Fee: $40                                                          	Grade: 9-12
Ceramics and Sculpture II
Prerequisite: Ceramics and Sculpture
Ceramics 2 and 3: An extension of the media and technique survey that was begun in Ceramics and Sculpture. Students in Ceramics 2 and 3 work independently, focusing on graphic expression of ideas through the use of sculptural and functional ceramics. Students develop problem solving and critical thinking skills, visual literacy, creativity, and a personal voice.
Credit: 0.5                          		Fee $40                                                     	Grade: 9‑12
Ceramics and Sculpture III
Prerequisite: Ceramics I or teacher recommendation
Ceramics 2 and 3: An extension of the media and technique survey that was begun in Ceramics and Sculpture. Students in Ceramics 2 and 3 work independently, focusing on graphic expression of ideas through the use of sculptural and functional ceramics. Students develop problem solving and critical thinking skills, visual literacy, creativity, and a personal voice.
Credit: 0.5                          		Fee $40                                                           Grade: 9‑12
Photography and Printmaking I
Prerequisite:  none
This course explores the creative fundamentals of photography and printmaking as art forms.  Techniques included in the studio experience are B&W film photography, film development and darkroom printing, digital photography with an introduction to Photoshop, cyanotypes, and printmaking.  Some printmaking techniques that may be explored are relief printing, monotypes, photo transfers, collagraphs, etc.  Expressive challenges are designed to develop a student's perceptual and problem-solving abilities, building confidence in artistic expression.  All skill levels are welcome.  Students must provide film and printing paper for the darkroom.  Film cameras, developing and printing equipment, inks and chemicals are provided.  A 35mm digital SLR with manual controls is HIGHLY recommended, but not required.
Credit: 0.5                           	Fee $35                                                          Grade: 9-12
Photography and Printmaking II
Prerequisite: Photography and Printmaking I
Students will advance their perceptual abilities and personal aesthetic, developing a portfolio of printed works-both darkroom and digital.  More advanced printmaking techniques, inventive darkroom techniques, pinhole cameras, and special effects using Photoshop will expand the skill set of each student.  The goal of the semester is to critically narrow the exploration of photographic & printmaking processes to pursue a concentrated body of work.  Personalized artistic challenges will be co-designed by teacher and student.  Students electing to work in the darkroom must provide their own film and printing paper.  Film cameras, developing and printing equipment, inks and chemicals are provided.  A 35mm digital SLR with manual controls is HIGHLY recommended, but not required.
Credit: 0.5                              	Fee: $35                                                       Grade: 9-12
Advanced Photography and Printmaking
Prerequisite: Photography and Printmaking II or teacher recommendation
Advanced Photography and Printmaking is offered to students who are extremely interested in the expressive and communicative possibilities of photography and printmaking as art forms.  The format for the semester will be partially teacher-directed assignments with the media and partially student-directed projects toward areas of personal interest.  This class will be of considerable interest to the student who plans to continue in a career or program
within photo/art.  Emphasis is on portfolio development.  Students must provide their own film and printing paper for the darkroom.  Film cameras, developing and printing equipment, inks and chemicals are provided.  A 35mm digital SLR with manual controls is HIGHLY recommended, but not required.
Credit:  0.5                               	Fee: $35                                                        Grade:  10-12
Graphic Design and Digital Art I
Prerequisite:  none
Graphic Design and Digital Art is art with a purpose.  It involves creativity and visual organization to solve a problem or communicate a message with type, image, graphic symbols, and illustration.  We live in a visual world where communication is rapid and impressions long lasting.  Therefore, thoughtful and creative design is the skill of future success in any field.  An investigation of Design Thinking and exploration of digital design tools (including, but not limited to, Adobe Illustrator and Adobe Photoshop) will engage students in the creation of contemporary and professional looking art works such as logo design, poster/book/album cover design, illustration, etc.  The elements and principles of design and color theory will impact our study of typography, layout, and illustration.  Students will refine skills of visual literacy as critical consumers and producers of visual communication. 
Credit: 0.5                          		Fee: $30                                                      Grades: 9-12
Graphic Design and Digital Art II
Prerequisite:  Graphic Design and Digital Art I or teacher recommendation
This course is designed to expand expertise as students build on the fundamental skills learned in Graphic Design and Digital Art I.  Students will use the digital design tools available in the Adobe Creative Cloud in combination with the elements and principles of design, color theory, and typography to create aesthetically pleasing works of art.  Projects will be tailored to students’ interests and geared towards possible career avenues/opportunities in the graphic design/digital art world, such as, but not limited to, animation, digital illustration, advertising, logos, brochures, package design, web design layout, video, VR, 3D design, etc. 
Credit: 0.5                          		Fee: $30     	 	                       Grades: 9-12
Unified Visual Art Mentorship
Prerequisite:  none
Designed for students wishing to provide mentorship to students with multiple disabilities…becoming a pARTner in creativity.  Activities are individually, and group designed for both partners for the purpose of developing craftsmanship and visual communication skills. The goal is to explore the personal satisfaction that comes from expressing one’s ideas with art materials and to assist students with disabilities to discover the same.  While open to all students, those interested in a career in education, special education, or art education will particularly benefit. 
Credit:  0.5 (Can be taken more than once.)		Fee: $15			 Grades: 9 - 12
Advanced Placement Art and Design: Drawing, 2D Design, or 3D Design Portfolios
Prerequisite:  Drawing and Painting,  Photo I, Ceramics and Sculpture, Graphic Design, or approval of instructor
The student will develop his or her own portfolio based on the guidelines of the AP program.
The portfolio may emphasize 2D design, 3D design, or Drawing, involving approximately 20 works of art.  The Advanced Placement Program in Art and Design is intended for highly motivated students who are seriously interested in the study of art. 
Credit: 1.0 		 	Fee:$30 + $102 AP Fee     		          Grades: 10‑12 
Advanced Placement Art History
Prerequisite:  Teacher recommendation
This year long course offers serious students the opportunity to explore art history in depth, from ancient
times to the present within both Western and non-Western traditions.  The AP Art History course should engage students at the same level of an introductory college art history survey course.  Students will develop an understanding and knowledge of diverse historical and cultural contexts of architecture, painting, sculpture, and other media.  Students are required to take the AP Art History exam in May.
Credit: 1.0 			Fee: $15 + $102 AP Fee    		          Grades: 10-12
Yearbook
With the outcome of a professionally published book, students will explore the literary, technical and aesthetic skills needed to produce a school yearbook.  The highly professional, time sensitive work requires meeting deadlines, working/communicating, serving as team leader, critique of personal as well as peer work, technological skill with an online design program, artistic expression, and responsible journalism.  Students will be responsible for all aspects of the production timetable and sales promotions of the yearbook, guided by the instructor and yearbook manufacturer’s representative.  The course materials comply with ISTE standards, State of Ohio Visual Arts Standards, and Common Core Standards for Language and Speaking & Listening.
Credit: 0. 5  (Can be taken more than once.)                			  Grades 9-12 
English
The Indian Hill High School English Department is dedicated to engaging students in reading, writing, and thinking processes. Students study English in each of their four years in high school; in addition, electives present students with many opportunities to develop their special interests.
Four credits of English are required for graduation.  These units must be taken in sequence, and no student is permitted to take two Basic English courses the same year.
Some English courses require students to purchase supplementary paperback books. Required courses, if failed, must be repeated.
PROGRAM GOALS
English students will demonstrate:
Intellectual Development
confidence and competence as readers, writers, and thinkers.
Personal Growth
the ability to relate literature to their personal experiences.
the ability to use literature and writing as touchstones for making personal decisions.
Social Responsibility
awareness through reading, writing, and discussion of multiple points of view.
One of the following is required for freshmen:
College Prep Freshman English
Students will participate in the study of vocabulary, grammar, literature, and composition.  Literature studies will focus on plays, novels, short stories, poetry, mythology, and non-fiction.  Writing assignments will focus on the five-paragraph essay as well as an introduction to research with general documentation.  .
Credit: 1.0                   		Novel Fee $50               		Grade: 9
Advanced Freshman English
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation
Students will participate in the study of vocabulary, grammar, literature, and composition.  Literature studies will focus on plays, novels, short stories, poetry, mythology, and nonfiction.  Writing assignments will focus on the five-paragraph essay as well as an introduction to research with MLA documentation.  Students in this advanced level will be expected to read additional works of literature, develop a “sophisticated” approach to writing/reading, and participate in more creative/critical thinking activities and collaborative assignments. 
Credit: 1.0			Novel Fee $72               		Grade: 9
One of the following is required for sophomores:
College Prep Sophomore English
Prerequisite: Freshman English
These students will participate in further study of English language arts. Students will continue their study of composition by writing in various types, which may include narration, exposition, poetry and free writing. This composition work will be tied to the study of American literature, including novels, short stories, poetry, and nonfiction.   Students may also be involved in vocabulary study, basic research, and oral presentation.  Supplementary paperback books are required and included.
Credit: 1.0			Novel Fee $45	            			Grade: 10
AP Capstone Seminar -  English 10
Prerequisite: Teacher Recommendation
For students in the advanced English track, AP Seminar is the sophomore advanced English course.  It emphasizes the exploration of academic and real-world issues through an interdisciplinary lens.  Through a variety of materials--from articles and research studies to literary and philosophical texts--students will be challenged to explore complex questions, understand and evaluate opposing viewpoints, interpret and synthesize information, and develop, communicate, and defend their own points of view.  The content and skills in this course are aligned with those required in AP English Composition and AP English Literature.  In addition, the AP Seminar course prepares students to take an optional AP Research course, which can be taken in the junior or senior year.  Students will be assessed for AP credit through an individual and team project completed during the year and a year-end written exam.  Supplementary paperback books are required and included.
Credit: 1.0 	        	Fee: $153.00 (novels and AP exam)                   Grade: 10
One of the following is required for juniors:
CCP English Composition (for college credit through the University of Cincinnati)
Prerequisite: Completion of Sophomore English
This course replicates the University of Cincinnati’s introductory course in writing and research for first-year students. Students will compose in a variety of genres, including personal writing, analytical writing, persuasive writing, and multi-genre writing. At each step, students will incorporate academic peer-reviewed research in their writing as an introduction to the discourse of college study. Emphasis is placed on composing multiple drafts of each piece of writing, as well as one-on-one conferencing with the instructor.  In lieu of an exam, students will compile a writing portfolio that highlights their semester’s work. 
**Students must apply to the college/university and be accepted.  A Letter of Intent must be submitted to the Counseling office at IHHS by April 1.
Credit:  1.0                          Fee:    $16.59                                        Grade:  11 or 12
CCP American Literature (for college credit through Ohio University)
Prerequisite: Completion of Sophomore English
This course explores the literature of America from the era of exploration to the present – in prose, poetry, drama, and non-fiction. Students will read authors such as Edgar Allan Poe, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Frederick Douglass, Mark Twain, Edith Wharton, Eugene O’Neill, Ernest Hemingway, Toni Morrison, Maxine Hong Kingston, and others. Literary styles covered  include: Evangelicalism, Enlightenment, Romanticism, Realism, Naturalism, Modernism, and Postmodernism.
Credit:  1.0                        Fee:         $68.56                                   Grade:  11 or 12 
College Prep Junior English
Prerequisite: Completion of Sophomore English
This course places an emphasis on Non Western World Literature. The core texts will explore pertinent global issues, historical components of colonialism, and enduring conflict at the individual and cultural level across several continents. Each respective piece of literature will also incorporate the historical background and exigency for the author's purpose and style of writing. The students will be engaged in a variety of writing and speaking assignments.  Critical reading, writing, and rhetorical analysis skills will be refined throughout the year. Supplementary readings are required of the students.  Supplementary paperback books are required and included.
Credit: 1.0                        	Fee: $93                				Grade: 11
Advanced Placement Language and Composition (Junior English)
Prerequisite: Recommendation and completion of Sophomore English
AP Junior English will focus on students becoming skilled readers of prose written in a variety of periods, disciplines, and rhetorical contexts and skilled writers who compose for a variety of purposes.  Emphasis is on expository, analytical, argumentative, personal, and reflective writing.  The Advanced Placement component of the course will enable students to read complex texts with understanding and to write rich and stylistically mature prose.  Students enrolled in this course will take the Advanced Placement Language and Composition exam in May.  Supplementary paperback books are required and included.
Credit: 1.0	 	Fee: $164.00 (novels and AP exam)  		Grade: 11
One of the following is required for seniors:
College Prep Senior English
Prerequisite: Completion of Junior English
This course stresses writing, language, speaking, listening, literature, and reading skills with a focus on interpretation, critical thinking, and analysis. Students must pass the second semester to earn course credit. British masters of fiction and nonfiction are studied. Emphasis is placed on the writing of critical analyses of literature, formal instruction in composition, rhetoric and logical thinking. The students will also be engaged in the writing of poetry, monologues, personal experiences, and satire.  Supplementary paperback books are required and included.
Credit: 1.0		Fee: $22.00       				Grade: 12
Advanced Placement Literature and Composition (Senior English)
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation and completion of AP Language and Composition (Junior English), and/or AP Research
This course includes a study of the wide range of English literatures, including world masterpieces, which emphasizes their influence on later works. The study of writing includes creative expression with major emphasis on formal composition, particularly writing the formal essay. Exactness of language and maturity of ideas are expected. The student selecting this course should be a self‑directed learner who is willing to commit time for an extensive amount of reading and writing.  Students enrolled in this course will take the Advanced Placement Literature and Composition exam in May.  Supplementary paperback books are required and included. 
Credit: 1.0 	          	Fee:  $151 (novels and AP exam)  			Grade: 12
Advanced Placement Language and Composition (Senior English)
Prerequisite:  Teacher recommendation
This course will focus on students becoming skilled readers of prose written in a variety of periods, disciplines, and rhetorical contexts, as well as skilled writers who compose for a variety of purposes.  Reading will focus on nonfiction although imaginative literature will also be included.  Composition emphasis will center on expository, analytical, argumentative, personal, and reflective writing.  The Advanced Placement component of the course will enable students to read complex texts with understanding and to write rich and stylistically mature prose.  Students write for academic purpose and to grasp both technical devices and thematic issues, discuss interpretive issues, and use research methods and MLA format.  Students enrolled in this course will take the Advanced Placement Language and Composition exam in May.
Credit: 1.0	         	 Fee: $147 (novels and AP exam)         		Grade: 12
AP Capstone Research
Prerequisite: Teacher Recommendation and AP Capstone Seminar
It is recommended students take  AP Language and Composition and Statistics before AP Capstone Research
AP Research allows students to deeply explore an academic topic, problem, or issue of individual interest.  Through this exploration, students design, plan, and conduct a yearlong mentored, research-based investigation to address a research question.
In the AP Research course, students further their skills acquired in the AP Seminar course by understanding research methods; employing ethical research practices; and accessing, analyzing, and synthesizing information as they address a research question. The course culminates in an academic thesis paper of approximately 5,000 words and a presentation, performance, or exhibition with an oral defense.   
Successful completion of this course is a necessary step in earning the AP Diploma.
Credit 1.0	 	Fee: $102 (exam only) 				Grade: 11-12  
ENGLISH ELECTIVES:
The Novel 
This semester-long class functions more like a book club than a traditional class. Students will be challenged to read as many novels as possible of their own selection with parent permission.  Students will also engage in creative projects and small group discussions to communicate the impact of these novels.  All reading levels are welcome. 
Credit: 0.5                                                                                                  		Grade: 9-12
Creative Writing
Prerequisite:  Teacher recommendation
This semester class is designed both to improve command of the conventions of grammar, syntax and organization, and to develop personal writing style and voice through the study of models selected by both the instructor and students themselves. The conventions of grammar and syntax will be studied using Strunk and White’s classic, The Elements of Style, as a textbook. Students will assemble a portfolio of original work from the multiple drafts they produce in short fiction, poetry, and personal essays. Requirements of the course include submitting one (1) original work for consideration to either a publication or contest, and to read and write book reviews of three (3) novels of the student’s choice over the course of the semester. Students must also assemble a portfolio of their best work in the genres of short fiction, poetry and personal essay with explanations on why they chose each sample. 
Credit: 0.5        			Fee:  $15                                         	Grade: 9-12
Crime Films
Prerequisite:  None
In this course we will watch film and television—from long ago and from today—that focuses on crime.  We will also analyze current events relating to crime and policing.  We will analyze different styles through which the genre has evolved—gangster films, film noir, the police procedural, psychological realism, neo-conservatism, and neo-professionalism—and ways in which film and television both reflect reality and create reality.  Outside speakers from local and federal police will speak to our class, and we will take a field trip to the Cincinnati office of the FBI..
Credit: 0.5                            	                                                  		Grade: 9-12
Great Films
In this course, we will develop a vocabulary of film study and screen some of the important films of the 20th and 21st century. A vocabulary of film study includes techniques of lighting, camera angle, framing, composition, and mise en scéne. We will examine genres such as film noir, the Western, and science fiction, and pay special attention to notable directors such as Charlie Chaplin, Alfred Hitchcock, Billy Wilder, Stanley Kubrick, Woody Allen, Ridley Scott, Quentin Tarantino, the Cohen brothers, and David Lynch. We will also pay special attention to female directors such as Kathryn Bigelow, Sophia Coppola, and Greta Gerwig and to African-American directors such as Spike Lee and Denzel Washington.
Credit: 0.5                                                                                 		Grade: 9-12
Screenwriting for Film & Television
Prerequisite:  None
This course is meant to be an introduction into screenwriting. Students will not only learn the format of a screenplay, but also the elements which make one successful: narrative, dialogue, action, parentheticals, transitions, and camera movements. Students will begin by watching and studying screenplays by the most talented minds working today: Wes Anderson (Isle of Dogs, Fantastic Mr. Fox), Christopher and Jonathan Nolan (The Dark Knight), Krysty Wilson-Cairns (1917), Sian Heder (CODA), Damien Chazelle (La La Land), John Carney (Sing Street), and Lana & Linda Wachowski (The Matrix), just to name a few. Over the semester, the students will engage in studying movies and composing their own scripts using the screenwriting software WriterDuet. This includes completely original works as well as teleplays of established characters, like from The Office. As with any creative writing course, an emphasis will be placed on the Workshop Method, with at least two workshops per quarter. If time permits, the semester will conclude with the writing, shooting, editing, and production of an original short film.
Credit: 0.5                           	 Fee: $48                                                  	  	Grade: 9-12
Lyric Studies: The Art of Song
Prerequisite:  None
In this course we will study the art of songwriting of the 20th and 21st century, from classic blues to modern rap. We will look at the cultural and social context of both classic and modern songs, analyze song lyrics, and apply our analytical skills to a variety of genres of music, including blues, rock, pop, and modern hip hop. We will study concert footage, music videos, and live shows, as well as using episodes of Song Exploder and Dissect as exemplars of highly polished, detailed lyrical analysis podcasts. Then, after learning the necessary editing and technological skills, we will produce original, high quality podcast episodes, in which we will publish our own deep-dive analyses of iconic songwriters and our favorite musical artists. Guest speakers will include modern artists, songwriters, and music critics.
Credit: 0.5                            	Fee: $20                        			 	Grade: 10-12
WORLD LANGUAGES
The World Language Department offers a full range of courses in French, Latin and Spanish.
PROGRAM GOALS
Appreciation of the validity of all cultures
Students will become familiar with different cultural aspects within the target language.
Students will draw connections between other cultures and their own.
Students will learn the geography of the regions influenced by the target language.
Fundamental communication skills in the target language
Students will demonstrate proficiency in listening, speaking and responding. 
Students will read materials in the target language and demonstrate proficiency.
Students will express themselves in written form.
Ability to apply higher order thinking skills to a situation in the target language
Students will recognize patterns in grammatical constructions and relationships among vocabulary items.
Students will manipulate the various elements of the target language to develop authentic patterns.
Students will incorporate grammatical and vocabulary patterns into authentic work in the target language.
Exposure to the cultural and historical contributions and influences of the speakers of other languages
Students will relate the content to other disciplines.
Students will explore the artistic contributions of speakers of other languages.
Students will explore the historical context of the target language
Appreciation of social and economic ramifications of language study
Students will explore language related careers.
Students will recognize how foreign language study enhances any career.
Students will relate how foreign language study enhances one's life.
FRENCH
French I
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation if changing languages
In French I, students will develop from a Novice-low to Novice-mid/high level of proficiency in French through activities and assessments centered upon the three modes of communication and their modalities (Interpersonal speaking and writing; Presentational speaking and writing; Interpretive reading and listening). These skills will be developed within the context of thematic units and essential questions, which allow for vocabulary-building, basic structure formation and development of important cultural competencies. These themes include, but are not limited to: hobbies, school, family relationships, sports, and friendship. Within the thematic units, important cultural aspects of the Francophone world are explored through the use of authentic resources. By the end of French I, students will be able to discuss the weather, tell time, describe themselves and others, and ask and answer basic questions. Students will acquire an awareness of the cultural products, practices and perspectives of France and the broader Francophone world. 
Credit: 1.0                      			                                                       	Grade: 9‑12
French II
Prerequisite: French 8 or French I and teacher recommendation
French II builds on the vocabulary and basic grammatical structures learned in French I. The students move from Novice-level proficiency into an Intermediate-level of proficiency through the three modes of communication and their modalities (Interpersonal speaking and writing; Presentational speaking and writing; Interpretive reading and listening). These skills will be developed within the context of thematic units and essential questions, which allow for vocabulary-building and a deeper learning of more intermediate structures. These themes include, but are not limited to: vacationing, travel, daily routine, and story-telling. Within the thematic units, important cultural aspects of the Francophone world are explored through the use of authentic resources. By the end of French II, students will be able to discuss future plans, describe their daily routine, narrate in the past, elaborate and give details. Students will acquire an awareness of the cultural products, practices and perspectives of France and the broader Francophone world. 
Credit: 1.0                      			                                                  	Grade: 9‑12
French III
Prerequisites: French II and teacher recommendation
French III expands on the vocabulary and grammatical structures learned in French II.  The students move from Intermediate-low proficiency to Intermediate-mid  through the three modes of communication and their modalities (Interpersonal speaking and writing; Presentational speaking and writing; Interpretive reading and listening). These skills will be developed within the context of thematic units and essential questions, which allow for vocabulary acquisition and a deeper understanding of more complex grammatical structures. These themes include, but are not limited to: childhood, technology, jobs and professions, travel, and the environment. Use of thematic vocabulary and the study of Francophone culture (products, practices and perspectives) continue to be expanded.  Reading comprehension, writing and speaking about self and others in addition to discussion of Francophone culture are all emphasized. 
Credit: 1.0          				            				Grade: 10‑12
French IV
Prerequisite: French III and teacher recommendation
French IV continues to expand the student’s French language proficiency. The students continue to develop their Intermediate proficiency through the three modes of communication and their modalities (Interpersonal speaking and writing; Presentational speaking and writing; Interpretive reading and listening). The French-speaking world is used as the thematic vehicle for moving the students forward linguistically while also improving their cultural competence. Topics include history, myths, famous people, music, culture and literature. Authentic resources from the internet including news websites, podcasts, radio, TV, film, Twitter, novels and other sources are used to facilitate learning. 
Credit: 1.0                  		                  				Grade: 11‑12
AP French Language & Culture
Prerequisite: French IV and teacher recommendation
AP French Language and Culture is a college-level course designed for students in the fifth high school level of study of French. The course is taught exclusively in French. Students are encouraged to use French as much as possible, with both the teacher and classmates. The coursework provides students the opportunity to demonstrate proficiency in these modes of communication and their modalities (Interpersonal speaking and writing; Interpretive reading and listening; Presentational speaking and writing), as described by the AP College Board guidelines and ACTFL proficiency guidelines, which define proficiency in an AP-level course as being within the “intermediate to pre-advanced” range. Oral presentations and dialogues are included in the course work. Also required are written compositions in French of increasing length and sophistication. The course encourages fluent self‑expression concerning the themes of cultural interest of contemporary France and the Francophone world. Authentic print and audio resources from France and the Francophone world will provide the basis for discussions, conversations and compositions. These resources include, but are not limited to, French magazines, newspapers, podcasts, television and radio news reports and selected works of French literature.
Credit: 1.0                      		Fee: $35 + $99 AP test                               	Grade: 11‑12       
LATIN
Latin I
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation if changing languages
The world of ancient Romans and its influence on the civilization of the western world are presented in this beginning course. The focus is on the Latin language, the parent of most modern European languages. Vocabulary and grammatical structures are presented to enable the student to read more and more complex stories. Mythology, history and cultural information are explored to enable the student to interpret the reading in class and compare the Romans’ world with our own. English derivatives from Latin roots are emphasized. 
Credit: 1.0                                                         	                            		Grade: 9‑12
Latin IIa
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation
This course continues to present the fundamentals of the Latin language to develop proficiency in reading Latin with continued emphasis on the culture and history of the Romans. Special attention is given to Latin’s relationship with English vocabulary and strengthening a student’s understanding of English grammatical structures. Activities and assessments are designed using various learning modalities. The pace of the course is determined with students and their various instructional levels in mind. This course is specifically intended to best serve struggling and emerging learners with limited world language experience. 
Latin II
Prerequisite: Latin I or Latin 8 and teacher recommendation
This course advances Latin reading proficiency by introducing complex grammatical constructions and expanding core vocabulary. Students transition toward intermediate fluency through the analysis of diverse informational and fictional texts, supplemented by the Suburani textbook series.  Beyond language acquisition, the curriculum explores the historical transformation of Rome from a local city-state into a vast global empire. Students will investigate the nuances of Roman daily life through the study of authentic art and artifacts, with a specialized thematic focus on ancient culinary traditions and dining practices.
Credit: 1.0                                                                      			Grade: 9‑12
Latin III
Prerequisite: Latin II and teacher recommendation
This course is intended to allow the students to see Latin as literature and not as simply a language. First quarter emphasizes Roman comedy with readings from a play by Plautus. Second quarter explores the funerary practices of the Romans and begins a study on the subjunctive mood. During third and fourth quarter students complete their introduction to formal mechanics of the language while reading selections from mythology. Students also increase their level of proficiency in the language while reading philosophical and scientific texts by Boethius, Galileo, Kepler, and Copernicus.
Credit: 1.0     			             					Grade: 10‑12
Latin IV             
Prerequisite: Latin III and teacher recommendation
In this class, students dive into authentic Latin literature of many different genres. This course prepares students to enter AP Latin or Latin V. Students will be exposed to a variety of Roman authors and literary genres. Besides establishing a rich foundation in reading un-adapted Latin, the basics of metrics and poetic devices will be explored as well as the cultural context of literature. Writing about the literature will be a major emphasis of class work and special importance will be placed on the language and analytical skills necessary for success in AP or college level Latin. The texts covered may vary year to year and are often selected with student input. However, students can expect to be exposed to selections of the following authors. Eutropius, Livy, Cicero, Pliny, Sallust, Catullus, Ovid and Caesar. Please note that specific curriculum and authors read in this course will alternate each year.
Credit: 1.0                      		                                                     	Grade: 11-12
Latin V
Prerequisite:  Latin IV
Latin V is open to any student who has completed Latin IV or its equivalent. Students in Latin V can expect an experience similar to Latin IV with respect to intensity and expectations, allowing them to increase their level of proficiency and prepare for college level Latin. Students dive into authentic Latin literature of many different genres. Students will be exposed to a variety of Roman authors and literary genres. Besides establishing a rich foundation in reading un-adapted Latin, the basics of metrics and poetic devices will be explored as well as the cultural context of literature. The texts covered may vary year to year and are often selected with student input. However, students can expect to be exposed to selections of the following authors. Eutropius, Livy, Cicero, Pliny, Sallust, Catullus, Ovid and Caesar. Please note that specific curriculum and authors read in this course will alternate each year.
Credit 1.0                       		                                                     	Grade: 12
Advanced Placement Latin 
Prerequisite Latin IV and teacher recommendation
Students will explore Latin poetry and prose, including metrics and poetic devices. Themes of leadership, war and empire, Roman values and views of non-Roman will be explored.  Emphasis is placed on  translation and literary analysis, both orally and in written form.
Credit 1.0 	     		AP Fee: $99      				Grade: 12
SPANISH
Spanish I
Prerequisite: Recommendation if changing languages
This course is an introduction to the Spanish language and culture with an emphasis on understanding and speaking the language in controlled situations. The acquisition of a limited vocabulary and knowledge of elementary grammar is included. Listening, speaking, reading and writing skills are developed.  Insight into Hispanic culture (geography, cross‑cultural differences, and current events) is also provided.
Credit: 1.0                       	             						Grade: 9‑12
Spanish II
Prerequisite: Spanish I and teacher recommendation
Spanish II builds on the vocabulary and basic grammatical structures learned in Spanish I. The students improve their proficiency levels through the three modes of communication and their modalities (Interpersonal speaking and writing; Presentational speaking and writing; Interpretive reading and listening). These skills will be developed within the context of thematic units, which allow for vocabulary-building and a deeper learning of more intermediate structures. These themes include, but are not limited to: travel, daily routine, shopping, physical description and personalities, etc. Within the thematic units, important cultural aspects of the Hispanic world are explored through the use of authentic resources. By the end of Spanish II, students will be able to describe their daily routine, narrate in the past, elaborate and give details. Students will acquire an awareness of the cultural products, practices, and perspectives of the Hispanic world. 
Credit: 1.0								Grade: 9-12
Spanish III
Prerequisite: Spanish II and teacher recommendation
Spanish III expands the student's ability to speak, write, and comprehend written and spoken Spanish. Additional emphasis is placed on developing comprehension skills and on speaking the language. Authentic resources from the internet including news websites, podcasts, radio, TV, film, Twitter, novels and other sources are used to move students ahead in their Spanish language proficiency level.
Credit: 1.0                         							Grade: 10-12
Spanish IV
Prerequisite: Spanish III and teacher recommendation
Spanish IV continues to expand the student’s Spanish language proficiency. Students will explore daily issues in Spanish speaking countries as the thematic vehicle to move students forward linguistically while also improving their cultural competence. Authentic resources from the internet including news websites, podcasts, radio, TV, film, social media, novels and other sources are used to facilitate learning.
Credit 1.0								Grade: 11
Spanish V
Prerequisite: Spanish IV or AP Spanish Language and teacher recommendation
Spanish V emphasizes the continued development of proficiency in reading, writing, speaking, and listening, while exploring diverse cultural topics such as history, art, literature, and contemporary issues across the Spanish-speaking world. Through authentic materials, discussions, and projects, students will engage in a rich exploration of cultural perspectives, practices, and products, gaining insights that broaden their global awareness and enhance their language ability. 
Credit 1.0								Grade: 12
AP Spanish Language
Prerequisite: Spanish III and teacher recommendation
The Advanced Placement course is for students who love Spanish and want to pursue college level work in high school. The course and AP examination cover the equivalent of a third‑year college course in Spanish composition and conversation. The stress is on oral/aural skills, composition, reading, grammar and the use of Spanish for active communication. Students can expect to speak in narrative and dialogue settings, write extended essays on general topics, demonstrate listening comprehension in dialogue, narrative and lecture settings, and demonstrate accuracy in grammar and other conventions of the written language. 
Credit: 1.0 	   		Fee: $65 + AP test $99			Grade: 11‑12
AP Spanish Literature and Culture 
Prerequisite: AP Spanish Language and teacher recommendation
The AP Spanish Literature and Culture course is designed to introduce students to the formal study of a representative body of texts from Peninsular Spanish, Latin American and U.S. Hispanic literature.  The course provides opportunities for students to demonstrate their proficiency in Spanish across the three modes of communication (interpersonal, interpretive and presentational) and the five goal areas (communication, cultures, connections, comparisons and communities.)  The overarching aims of the course are to provide students with ongoing and varied opportunities to further develop their proficiencies across the full range of language skills—with special attention to critical reading and analytical writing—and to encourage them to reflect on the many voices and cultures included in a rich and diverse body of literature written in Spanish.  A key objective of the course is to encourage students not only to analyze and retell the content of the texts they read, but also to relate that content to historical, sociocultural and geopolitical contexts in Spanish.  
Credit: 1.0	  		AP fee: $99      			Grade: 12
Health
PROGRAM GOALS
Intellectual Development
Students will make better decisions to attain a higher level of health because of increased knowledge of health topics.
Personal Growth
Students will understand that health is not only the physical aspect of life, but also an emotional and social part of our life.
Social Responsibility
Students will understand how relationships among family members, acquaintances, friends and peer group influence the health and well being of the members of these groups.
Students are required to take 0.5 credits in order to meet the graduation requirements.
Health Education (Required in 9th or 10th grade)
The Health Education curriculum is designed to help prepare young people to make responsible and healthy decisions in order to pursue a high quality of life. This course focuses on the three domains of wellness; physical, mental/emotional, and social health.  Specific topics that are covered in this course include; nutrition, mental wellness/stress/ and anxiety,  healthy vs. unhealthy relationships, human development and sexuality, and substance use and abuse.                  Credit: 0.5         	                        Grade: 9-10
Blended Health 
This course is designed to provide students with the knowledge, skills and positive attitudes necessary for making responsible choices that will lead to a high quality of life and wellness. This course will be taught mostly asynchronously (on the student’s own time) with approximately 1-45 minute synchronous session (in person which will be the first half of Flex each week or otherwise noted due to schedule changes) You will be given weekly modules to complete throughout the entire semester.
Credit: 0.5         	                                                                            	 	Grade: 9-10
Summer Health
This course is designed to provide students with the knowledge, skills and positive attitudes necessary for making responsible choices that will lead to a high quality of life and wellness. This course will be taught 100% online and asynchronously (on the student’s own time) with approximately 2 Google Meet sessions in which students will be able to meet the teacher, ask any clarifying questions, and get any additional help or instruction if needed. These meetings are not required, but available if needed. You will need to be able to complete this class within an 8 week period over the summer. A pacing guide will be provided to you.
Credit: 0.5         	                                          Fee $375                                                                   Grade: 9-10
Mind, Body, and Wellness
Prerequisite:  Health Education 
This health and wellness course focuses on the latest trends in health, physical activity, and wellness using a holistic approach. This course is designed to promote greater awareness, understanding and ownership of the multiple dimensions of health and well-being. Students will learn and practice various stress and anxiety reduction techniques and apply these to the stress they experience in their own lives. 
Credit:  0.5 				       				Grade: 10-12
Marketing
Marketing courses are elective and range from an introductory one semester elective course to senior Marketing Capstone course.
PROGRAM GOALS:
Intellectual Development
Students will understand the economics of marketing, human resources, business foundations, and marketing functions.
Personal Growth
Students will be exposed to the current events locally and globally that relate to business and marketing.  Students will learn how to apply problem solving skills to these events.
Social Responsibility
Students will be qualified to pursue employment in marketing, entrepreneurship, and other business positions. On‑the‑job experience provides the students with the opportunity to develop interpersonal relations.
Intro to Business
This course fulfills the Financial Literacy requirement by the State of Ohio Department of Education
This one semester elective class can be taken anytime during a student’s first two years in high school. Business Foundations is an instructional program that will enable students to understand and apply the fundamentals of marketing, management and entrepreneurship within an ethical framework. Students will learn the essentials of economics in a global environment to make rational economic decisions. The course provides a foundation for students who want to understand how business works, or who wish to pursue further study in marketing. Projects include: the stock market game and business improvement plan. To participate and compete in DECA, there will be an additional fee. Students must be following the Canvas curriculum to participate in DECA.
Credit: 0.5                                                                         	            		Grade: 9-10
Intro to Marketing 
This one semester class can be taken anytime throughout high school.  Students will obtain fundamental knowledge and skills in marketing communications and marketing activities.  They will utilize marketing strategies in a project-based setting which will coincide with current business activities incorporated within the classroom.  The projects will include marketing within the framework of the seven functions of marketing.  To participate and compete in DECA, there will be an additional $15 fee. Student must be following Canvas curriculum to participate in DECA
Credit:  0.5								Grade:  9-12
Marketing Communications
This is a full year class to be taken by Juniors and Seniors. Integrated Marketing Communications will provide students with opportunities to explore the role of marketing in our economy through hands-on projects and activities. The program is oriented to students who wish to pursue a career in business or marketing. They will develop their skills and abilities in communication, decision-making, problem solving, critical thinking, sales, marketing research, advertising, distribution and promotion. Projects include: promotional campaign for DECA and sales presentations.  Membership in DECA (An Association of Marketing Students) is required. 
Credit:  1.0  			Fee: $15            	            			Grade: 11-12
Strategic Entrepreneurship
Prerequisite: Marketing Course taken with Great Oaks/IH Instructor
This is a full year class to be taken by seniors. Students will apply innovation skills to generate ideas for new products and/or services. Strategies will be developed to profile markets and create business plans. Students will take initial steps to establish a business by evaluating financial commitments, risk management, branding, promotion, staffing and managing customer relationships. Management principles will be included. Membership in DECA (An Association of Marketing Students) is required.
**This course will be offered as a CCP course if students have satisfied all prerequisites which are: Intro to Marketing, Intro to Business, and Marketing Communications.  College Credit Plus students who receive a “C” or better will earn college credit through an accredited college. Students must apply to the college/university and be accepted.  A Letter of Intent and CCP Counseling Resource Packet must be submitted to the Counseling office at IHHS by April 1.
Credit: 1.0    			 Fee $15              				Grade 12
Marketing Capstone 
The Marketing Capstone course is a work experience based course that must have a component of marketing within the job.  The student must earn a minimum of 120 hours of work experience that can begin the summer after their Junior year.  This can be a paid or unpaid position and more than one experience can be utilized.  This course must be taken along with either Strategic Entrepreneurship or CCP Entrepreneurship but is not required with those courses.  All work experiences MUST be approved by the instructor.  Credit 1.0        Grade:  12
Personal Finance
This one semester course will cover financial responsibility and how students can begin planning today for their future. They will analyze financial products and services and how money management principles will inform them how to make financial decisions now and into their future. Students will explore various tools that can be used in making those decisions. Personal Finance topics include Money, Banking, Careers, Insurance, Taxes, Budgeting, Use of Credit, Investing, and Risk Management.
Credit: 0.5								Grades: 11-12
Mathematics
The Indian Hill Math Department is committed to maintaining an educational program that ensures that all students master the basic computational skills; have an opportunity to become mathematically literate; are capable of becoming lifelong learners; have an equal opportunity to learn math; and become informed citizens capable of understanding issues in a technological and informational society.
We believe that knowledge of mathematics is an essential element in the development of the whole person, and that proficiency in mathematics cannot be acquired without practice.  Inquiry is the key educational enterprise, encompassing curiosity, love of learning, intellectual discipline, core knowledge and skills, and the search for meaning.
Intellectual Development
Students will use mathematical language to communicate ideas;
Students will formulate problems, apply a variety of strategies to solve problems and generalize the solutions;
Students will understand, interpret and evaluate mathematical ideas that are presented in written, oral or visual forms;
Students will use inductive reasoning to recognize patterns; and use deductive reasoning to justify mathematical conclusions;
Students will use models, diagrams, symbols and graphs to generate examples and counterexamples of mathematical concepts, and;
Students will recognize correct and incorrect procedures; to generate new procedures or modify familiar ones.
Personal Growth
Students will appreciate the application of mathematics to other disciplines and recognize its value as a tool and as a language.
Social Responsibility
Students will utilize mathematical concepts and the logical thinking process of mathematics. The student will be able to be a contributing citizen, work to the benefit and needs of others, and understand the applications of mathematics in everyday life.
IHHS Mathematics Department General Guidelines:
Teacher recommendation is a prerequisite for every course.
Alternative course selections for which the student wishes credit such as online courses, independent study, or correspondence courses will be permitted only after express written consent of the department leader.
If a student takes a course that is part of the Indian Hill Mathematics Department offerings, through a summer school, online, or correspondence class, etc., the student must pass a cumulative assessment that will be designed, administered, and graded by the department leader.
Algebra I
Prerequisite: Pre Algebra
Topics include solving and graphing linear equations and inequalities of one and two variables, systems of equations, and polynomials. Quadratics are introduced and expanded upon to include graphing and solving when given multiple representations. Students expand upon these topics through applications in statistics, growth and decay problems, compound interest, free-falling objects, and fitting lines to data sets.  Course will culminate with the state EOC test.
Credit: 1.0			Fee: $5.00				Grade: 9‑12
Geometry
Prerequisite: Algebra I
Congruence, similarity, area, and volume of both two and three-dimensional figures will be studied. Transformations and coordinate geometry are topics throughout the course. Logical deductive reasoning will be developed along with an appreciation of geometry as a means of describing the physical world.  Probability and statistics are introduced and explored. The course will culminate with the state EOC test.
Credit: 1.0			Fee: $5.00				Grade: 9‑12
Algebra II
Prerequisite: Geometry
Students expand their knowledge base acquired in Algebra I and Geometry as they explore various functions, with an emphasis on quadratic, polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, and rational functions.	Math content in this course is heavily represented on the ACT and SAT.   This course introduces the graphing calculator as a tool to solve various complex problems, therefore a graphing calculator is required.
 Credit: 1.0			Fee: $5.00				Grade 9-12
Advanced Algebra II
Prerequisite: Geometry and teacher recommendation
Students expand their knowledge base acquired in Algebra I and Geometry as they explore various functions, including:  quadratic, polynomial, exponential, logarithmic, rational, and trigonometric functions.  The course incorporates additional work to further develop algebraic manipulation skills, and introduces the graphing calculator as a tool to solve various complex problems.  A graphing calculator is required.
Credit: 1.0			Fee: $5.00				Grade 9-11
Discrete Mathematics 
Prerequisite: Geometry 
Discrete Mathematics is the study of mathematical structures that are countable or otherwise distinct and separable (as opposed to continuous quantities like in algebra or calculus). This course will explore a variety of discrete math topics through a mix of hands-on classroom activities, traditional mathematical/logical reasoning and interactive computer science activities designed for students with no prior coding experience. Topics include Computational Thinking, Computer Logic, Game Theory, Counting/Combinatorics, Probability, Connectivity, Iteration and Recursion, and Cryptography. All topics emphasize logical reasoning, proof, and communication with precise mathematical and computer science language.
Credit: 1.0                               	 Fee: $5                               		Grade: 10-12
Unified Mathematics Mentorship
Prerequisite: Geometry
This is a semester elective course. This class is designed for students wishing to provide mentorship to students with multiple disabilities becoming a partner in learning math concepts.  Activities are individually, and group designed for the purpose of developing math skills and communication skills. Some of your responsibilities will be to help the students with work during class time and join them for lunch! The goal is to explore the personal satisfaction that comes from assisting students with disabilities to discover the standards of the high school math curriculum. While open to all students, those interested in a career in education, special education, or math education will particularly benefit.  Your participation will greatly contribute to the ability of the students to become independent adults.  
Credit: 0.5 per semester                                 Fee: $5                              		Grade: 10-12
College Algebra
Prerequisite: Algebra II
Prepare for success in higher education with our College Algebra course. This semester-long offering is designed to provide high school students with a robust foundation in algebraic concepts essential for college-level coursework. College Algebra explores advanced algebraic topics, emphasizing problem-solving, critical thinking, and mathematical reasoning.
Credit: 0.5				Fee: $5.00			Grade: 10-12
Statistics
Prerequisite: Algebra II
Unlock the power of data analysis with our semester-long Introduction to Statistics course. This engaging and practical course introduces high school students to fundamental statistical concepts, equipping them with the skills needed to interpret, analyze, and draw meaningful conclusions from data.
Credit: 0.5				Fee: $5.00			Grade: 10-12
Math Experiences and Exploration I 
Prerequisite: Geometry
Math Experiences and Exploration Projects (MEEP I) is an engaging, semester-long course designed to immerse students in real-world applications of mathematics through diverse, hands-on learning experiences. Students will earn their Lean Six Sigma Yellow Belt certification, gaining valuable skills in process improvement and statistical analysis that are highly sought after in industry.   MEEP I provides a unique opportunity for students to explore the power of mathematics beyond the classroom, preparing them for future academic and professional endeavors.
Credit: 0.5                 			Fee: $5                               		Grade: 11-12
Math Experiences and Exploration II
Prerequisite: Math Experiences and Exploration I
Math Experiences and Exploration Projects II (MEEP 2) is a math elective course. Taught through a project-based learning method, students will discover how mathematics connects to art, music, business, sports, science, culture, and more by completing projects of their choice from the MEEP field guide. This student-driven course encourages students to find creative solutions to authentic real-world problems by building on skills gained in MEEP I. Bring your curiosity and innovative mindset to this mathematical experience! 
Credit: 0.5             			Fee: $5                               		Grade: 11-12
Precalculus
Prerequisite: Algebra II 
Precalculus extends upon the study of functions from Algebra II.  Quadratic, polynomial, rational, power, exponential, logarithmic, logistic, and trigonometric functions and their applications will be explored.  The course will integrate statistical and algebraic concepts, and preview calculus.  It will develop problem solving strategies.  A graphing calculator is required for this course.
Credit: 1.0				Fee: $5.00			Grade: 10‑12
AP Pre-Calculus
Prerequisite: Advanced Algebra II, Pre-Calculus or College Algebra and Stats with teacher recommendation
This course explores a spectrum of functions to prepare students for college-level calculus and careers where math is foundational. Students will use real-world modeling situations to analyze and expand their knowledge of functions. We will dive deep into polynomial, rational, exponential, logarithmic, polar, and trigonometric functions to foster a conceptual understanding of each function. Successful completion of the Advanced Placement Exam in May is usually accorded college credit. This course is preparation for the Advanced Placement Calculus AB course. A graphing calculator is required.
Credit: 1.0                                     		AP  Fee: $102                                    Grade 10-12
Calculus
Prerequisite: Precalculus and teacher recommendation
Real‑valued algebraic functions and their derivatives are studied with applications to velocity, rates of change and graphing. Fundamental integration techniques will be introduced with applications to area and volume. This is a less rigorous course than the Advanced Placement level. A graphing calculator is required.
Credit: 1.0				Fee: $5.00			  Grade: 11‑12
AP Calculus ‑ AB
Prerequisite: AP Pre-Calculus, Pre-Calculus, Calculus, and/or teacher recommendation
This course covers topics included in the first two semesters of college calculus. The study of limits and continuity are continued from the AP PreCalculus course but are covered in greater depth.  Differential and integral calculus are thoroughly covered as applied to real‑valued algebraic and transcendental functions. Applications to rates of change, velocity, curve sketching, extreme values, related rates, accumulation, area and volume are covered in detail.  Successful completion of the Advanced Placement Exam in May is usually accorded college credit. A graphing calculator is required.
Credit: 1.0 	   			AP Fee: $102      	 			Grade: 11-12
Multivariable Calculus 
Prerequisite: AP Calculus AB with a passing exam score (3 or higher) on the AP Calculus AB Exam with teacher recommendation.
This course is for the student who is passionate about math and wants to pursue a career that involves math. The first semester of this course includes topics covered in Calculus C that go beyond Calculus AB.  First semester topics include parametric equations, polar equations, vectors, sequences, series, convergence and advanced techniques of integration. Second semester continues to review Calculus C skills and extends calculus topics to more than one variable with a deeper dive into Multivariable Calculus.  Topics include vectors and matrices, parametric curves, partial derivatives, double and triple integrals and vector calculus in 2 and 3 dimensional space.   Students who complete this course may choose to take the AP Calculus BC Exam. 
Credit: 1.0                            	Fee: $5.00 + (OPTIONAL) AP Fee (optional) $102		Grade 12
AP Statistics
Prerequisite:  Precalculus, Advanced Algebra II or Algebra II with teacher recommendation
This Advanced Placement course in statistics covers topics usually included in an introductory college course in statistics.  Students apply concepts to real-world situations and projects to learn principles and tools for collecting, analyzing, and drawing conclusions from data - skills used in a wide range of disciplines and job fields. A graphing calculator is required. Students are exposed to four conceptual themes:
Exploring Data: Observing patterns and departures from patterns.
Planning a Study: Deciding what and how to measure.
Anticipating Pattern in Advance: Producing models using probability and simulation.
Statistical Inference: Confirming models.
Credit: 1.0 	   			AP Fee: $102      	 			Grade: 10-12  
AP Computer Science Principles
The Computer Science Principles course provides an introduction to the basic principles of
computer science (CS) from the perspective of mobile computing, including programming in App Lab, a graphical programming language for mobile devices using the student’s choice of block language or Javascript. The lessons and materials used by students incorporate programming while also integrating all other AP CSP big ideas: creativity, abstraction, data and information, algorithms, the Internet and global impact. The curriculum engages
students and supports the development of problem solving skills, honing in on the computational thinking
practices as indicated in the AP CSP curriculum framework. Students learn to create socially useful
computational artifacts using App Lab as well as connect computing and learning about abstraction
as they develop and analyze their programs. The curriculum also emphasizes communication and
collaboration in a project-based approach.
Credit: 1.0 			Fee: $102 if taking the AP Exam     		      Grade: 9-12
AP Computer Science A
Prerequisite: Algebra I & Computer Science Principles
AP Computer Science A introduces students to computer science through programming. Fundamental topics in this course include the design of solutions to problems, the use of data structures to organize large sets of data, the development and implementation of algorithms to process data and discover new information, the analysis of potential solutions, and the ethical and social implications of computing systems. The course emphasizes object-oriented programming and design using the Java programming language. PREREQUISITES: It is recommended that students have successfully completed a first year high school algebra course with a strong foundation of basic linear functions, composition of functions, and problem-solving strategies that require multiple approaches and collaborative efforts, and Computer Science Principles. In addition, students should be able to use a Cartesian (x, y) coordinate system to represent points on a plane. It is important that students and their advisers understand that any significant computer science course builds upon a foundation of mathematical reasoning that should be acquired before attempting such a course. 	
Credit: 1.0 			Fee: $102 AP Exam   		 	      Grades: 10 - 12     
Computer Science Pro I & II
Embark on an exciting journey with Computer Science Pro, an engaging and enriching elective designed to fast-track your readiness for both college and the thrilling world of computer science careers. Immerse yourself in independent credentialing programs, where you'll explore the cutting-edge realms of AI, cybersecurity, and software development. Gain industry-recognized credentials, elevating your skill set and setting you apart in the world of technology. Opt for the standalone semester option for a focused experience, or amplify your adventure by seamlessly combining it with CS Pro II for a year-long exploration of the ever-evolving field of Computer Science. 
Credit: 0.5			Credential exam/prep: $95				Grade: 10-12
Python Programming I
Python Programming I is a year-long course that provides a comprehensive introduction to programming with Python. Students begin with coding fundamentals, including variables, loops, functions, and object-oriented programming, while building logical thinking and problem-solving skills. They will apply these skills to design and develop unique games, interactive programs, and data visualizations using tools like pandas and matplotlib.
As the course progresses, students delve into advanced topics, such as image-based graphics and the creation of larger, more complex programs. Emphasis is placed on code organization, program design, and dynamic, real-world applications. Students will complete the course by passing the Python Certified Entry-level Programmer (PCEP) certification test. Upon successful completion, they will earn credentials as a Certiport IT Specialist: Python and the PCEP Certification from the Python Institute, validating their skills and providing a strong foundation for future opportunities in computer science.
Credit: 1.0 			PCEP exam/prep: $95.00   		 	   Grades: 9 - 12 
Music
The music department offers a program designed to help students discover and nurture individual musical interests and talents.  Activities within the scope of the program emphasize guided musical learning experiences through performance, which develops musical growth.
PROGRAM GOALS
Intellectual Development
Students will explore and discover ideas for music and will be able to transform these ideas through media into a personal expression in the musical arts.
Students will be able to perceive and describe works of music, which will help them to interpret and to judge the musical world.
Personal Growth
Students will explore how artists discover ideas for music in personal experiences and how they transform these ideas to create music by working with various musical media.
Students will explore how music critics and historians perceive, describe, interpret and judge works of music.
Social Responsibility
Students will become aware of how society expresses values and beliefs and changes in these by working with its technologies to make musical forms.
Students will become aware of how society recognizes, perceives, interprets and judges musical forms.
Band 
Prerequisite: Audition
Indian Hill High School Bands are performing ensembles made up of traditional band instrumentation. We teach “comprehensive musicianship” through performance in band. The band gives several concerts throughout the year and this course will focus on the development and refinement of individual and ensemble musicianship and playing skills through the performance of challenging and varied literature. The most effective way for students to develop an understanding and love for music is for them to be involved in the music-making process.  There are several extra-curricular opportunities available for Concert Band students to be involved in - these include Marching Band (August thru November), Varsity Pep Band (December thru March), and Jazz Band (December thru May).  Students are encouraged to be involved in one or more of these groups and to take private lessons.  Any student with prior instrumental performance experience will be admitted to the high school band program.
Credit: 1.0   		Fee: $50                            			Grade 9-12
Orchestra
Prerequisite:  Audition
The Indian Hill High School Orchestra is a performing group of students who play string instruments.  Proficiency on a string instrument and knowledge of basic fundamentals are required.  Several concerts are performed each year giving the musical opportunity to perform in extracurricular activities such as:  Pow-Wow, Solo-Ensemble Contest and Quartet.  Consistent attendance and preparation are required to maintain membership.                                     Credit:   1.0  		Fee $10                              			Grade 9-12
Freshmen/Braves Choir
Prerequisite: None
Braves Choir is an exciting beginner-level course exclusively for 9th graders. You will learn the art of ensemble singing, focusing on harmony, vocal technique, and the fundamentals of choral performance. This course is designed to build confidence, foster musical growth, and encourage self-expression through the power of song in a low-pressure setting. No prior experience is needed—just bring your passion for music and join our community of budding vocalists ready to make their voices heard.
Credit: 1.0		Fee $15					Grade 9
Concert Choir
Prerequisite: Braves Choir or Vocal Placement
Concert Choir is an intermediate ensemble for students in grades 10-12, designed to deepen your vocal abilities and musical understanding. Sing diverse and more challenging repertoire, from classical to contemporary pieces. You’ll learn advanced vocal techniques and musical expression. Concert Choir offers numerous performance opportunities, fostering a sense of community and teamwork as you share your talents in concerts, competitions, and community events. This course can be taken multiple times as the curriculum changes from year-to-year to reflect the students enrolled. No experience required, only a brief placement with the director.
Credit: 1.0		Fee $15              	            			Grade 10-12
Advanced Chorus/Premieres
Prerequisite: Vocal Placement 
This advanced, select choir performs diverse choral literature to develop musicianship and performance skills. The student involved in this organization will continue with their studies of vocal production, note reading, music theory, and an overall concept of music in culture. The group performs as ambassadors of Indian Hill High School, and represents the school in the community and beyond. Admission to the course is by vocal placement with the director.  Private voice instruction is highly recommended.
Credit: 1.0  		Fee $15              	            	 		Grade 10-12
Band/Orchestra
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation 
Students in this course will split time between band and orchestra.
Credit: 1.0    		Fee: $60                            			Grade 9-12
Band/Choir
Prerequisite:  Teacher recommendation 
Students in this course will split time between band and chorus.
Credit:  1.0    		Fee: $60                            			Grade 9-12
Orchestra/Choir
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation
Students in this course will split class time between band/orchestra and chorus all year.
Credit: 1.0    		Fee $20              				Grade 9-12
Intro to Music Theory
Music Theory is the analytical (Math/Science), left-brained side of Music. In this course, students learn foundational principles of Music Theory including: diatonic melodic and harmonic structures, notation, time signatures, intervals, major and minor scales, key signatures, and triads. Students demonstrate their mastery of these concepts through some exploration of music composition. Some background in reading music would be helpful. This course is designed to prepare students for AP Music Theory.
**This course will be offered as a CCP course. College Credit Plus students who receive a “C” or better will earn college credit through an accredited college. Students must apply to the college/university and be accepted.  A Letter of Intent and CCP Counseling Resource Packet must be submitted to the Counseling office at IHHS by April 1.
Credit: 0.5		Fee:  $50				Grade: 9 - 12
Advanced Placement Music Theory
Prerequisite:  Intro to Music Theory or Teacher Recommendation
This course requires self-motivation and the higher-level thinking skills of logic and reasoning. AP Music Theory builds on the foundation from Intro to Music Theory, or students have this foundation from other experiences. Students will improve their individual musicianship as they engage in the study of composition, analysis, sight singing, and critical listening, far exceeding the expectations of traditional music performance classes. Although AP Music Theory is a non-performance course, students will benefit from a solid foundation in vocal and/or instrumental music. AP Music Theory covers the same curriculum as first year college Music majors and is highly recommended for any student considering a career in Music. Fluency in reading music (rhythms and pitches in treble clef and bass clef) is expected of those who enroll, and some experience with piano is very helpful. All students enrolled in this class are expected to take the Advanced Placement Exam.
Credit:  1.0		AP Fee: $102 	 			Grades: 10-12
Advanced Music Theory II and III
Prerequisite: AP Music Theory
This course is designed for the truly advanced Music student who has successfully completed AP Music Theory and is likely to study Music beyond high school. Most of year two college Music Theory curriculum is covered in this course. Content includes: modulation; borrowed chords; augmented sixth chords; neapolitan chords; ninth, eleventh, and thirteenth chords; some study of Jazz and Pop styles, and Serial Composition. A significant component of this course is for students to utilize an advanced knowledge of Music Theory to create their own compositions. 
Credit: 0.5		Fee: None				Grade: 11 - 12
Piano Lab I-Beginner Level
Prerequisite: None
Dive into the fundamentals of piano playing with our Piano Lab/Class Piano, open to students in grades 9-12. This course is designed for beginners and those with minimal experience, offering a supportive environment to learn posture, hand positioning, note reading, and basic music theory. Through individual practice and group lessons in our piano lab, students will explore a variety of musical genres, gradually building their repertoire and performance skills. The course emphasizes creative expression and personal growth, with opportunities for students to showcase their progress in informal recitals. Join us to unlock the joy of music making, enhance your musical understanding, and develop a lifelong skill in the art of piano playing.
Credit: 0.5		Fee: $40				Grade: 9 - 12
Piano Lab II-Intermediate Level
Prerequisite: Piano Lab I or Teacher recommendation
Elevate your piano playing skills with our Intermediate Class Piano/Piano Lab, tailored for students in grades 9-12 with foundational knowledge of piano. This course builds upon basic skills, introducing more complex pieces, advanced music theory, and techniques such as scales, arpeggios, and chord progressions. Students will deepen their understanding of musical styles and composers, enhancing their ability to interpret and express music with nuance and sophistication. The piano lab setting offers a blend of individualized instruction and collaborative learning, encouraging students to refine their technique and explore creative expression. Performance opportunities allow for sharing achievements and growth. Join this intermediate course to challenge your abilities, expand your repertoire, and cultivate a richer, more expressive piano playing experience.
Credit: 0.5		Fee: $40				Grade: 9 - 12
Music Production & Audio Engineering
Prerequisite: None
This course introduces students to the creative and technical foundations of modern music production and audio engineering. Students will explore recording techniques, beat creation, MIDI, Digital Audio Workspace (DAW) Ableton, mixing, and basic mastering practices. Through hands-on projects, critical listening, and collaborative work, students will learn how to capture, shape, and refine sound across a variety of musical styles. Emphasis is placed on both technical proficiency and artistic decision-making, preparing students to produce polished works and to work effectively in studio environments. Students will end the semester with a portfolio of projects they can carry forward.
Credit: 0.5		Fee: None			Grade: 10-12
Physical Education
Physical Education is concerned with the total well being of students.  This encompasses interrelated studies in health and physical education programs that involve the cognitive, affective, and psychomotor domains.  Basic concepts in physical development and health provide students with knowledge, skills and experiences in body development, opportunities for obtaining and assessing their individual skills, opportunities for developing personal health/fitness plans, and skills and strategies in activities for lifelong participation and maintenance of wellness.  Students are required to take 0.5 credits in order to meet the graduation requirements.
 
PROGRAM GOALS
A student of Indian Hill Exempted Village School District shall be considered physically literate when the student:
demonstrates competency in a variety of motor skills and movement patterns.
applies knowledge of concepts, principles, strategies and tactics related to movement and performance.
demonstrates the knowledge and skills to achieve and maintain a health-enhancing level of physical activity and fitness.
exhibits responsible, personal and social behavior that respects self and others.
recognizes the value of physical activity for health, enjoyment, challenge, self-expression and/or social interaction.
Sports and Recreation
This course will provide opportunities for students to participate in team sports and recreational activities as players, coaches and referees. Students will learn the fundamentals and skills specific to each sport. Students will also engage and apply techniques, strategies and rules for each sport.
Credit: 0.25							Grades: 9-12

Aerobics, Dance, and Yoga
This course is a challenging aerobic and dance class with a mix of choreographed fitness, yoga, and pilates exercises designed to increase flexibility, strength, balance, and core stability.  This class will also teach basic footwork patterns and coinciding body movements to various rhythms in a variety of activities.
Credit: 0.25                                                                                         	Grades: 9-12

Outdoor Education
This course is designed for the student who enjoys and appreciates the great outdoors!  Students will learn the necessary skills to safely participate in various outdoor activities, such as, cycling, skiing, rock climbing, canoeing, fishing etc.  
Credit: 0.25		Fee $135              	            			Grade: 9‑12
Unified PE Mentorship
Is an elective designed for students wishing to provide mentorship to students with multiple disabilities. Students, after being selected for the program, undergo specialized training in preparation for being a mentor for the student and their specific needs.  Activities are individually, and group designed for both partners for the purpose of developing physical and mental health skills. Our goals are to increase the awareness of being physically fit and strive to improve their overall fitness by participating in physical fitness workouts, and sport concepts. In the classroom, students will incorporate lesson activities that will help increase the importance of body awareness, body functions, nutrition, and good healthy habits including social and emotional awareness. There will be a variety of individual, team and lifetime sports offered to the students as well as fitness and wellness activities designed to meet the needs of each and every student
Credit: 0.25 (PE credit) or 0.50 (if as an elective)			Grades: 10-12
Athletic Performance and Nutrition (semester) 
The major objectives of the Intro to APN class is to begin to develop knowledge and focus regarding strength, power, flexibility, agility, coordination, quickness, speed, muscular and cardiovascular endurance, pride, self-discipline, a positive attitude towards work, sacrifice and commitment. The format is designed as a self-improvement program.  As nutrition is an integral part of overall fitness, this too will be investigated and correlated to peak performance.  Students learn techniques to measure self-improvement and evaluate individual progress.  These courses CAN be taken more than once for credit as physical fitness and wellness are always an ongoing lifelong practice.  
Credit: 0.25                                                                                        	Grades: 9
Science
The Science Department is committed to the laboratory approach in the teaching of all of our course offerings. The Indian Hill High School science student may select from a variety of course offerings designed to meet individual needs as well as graduation requirements.
PROGRAM GOALS
Intellectual Development
Students will have confidence and competence as scientific thinkers.
Students will solve problems effectively.
Personal Growth
Students will make responsible decisions based on scientific knowledge.
Students will integrate and apply scientific knowledge.
Social Responsibility
Students will explore current social and personal implications of science.
·         Students will question from an historical, social and scientific point of view.
One of the following two Biology classes is required for freshman:
Required for freshmen:
Biology 
Exploring living organisms in terms of stability, change and interactions is the major theme of Biology. Problem solving is emphasized through laboratory experiences where students collect, organize and analyze data. Topics include Biochemistry, Cell Biology, Genetics, Evolution, Organisms and Populations, Ecology and Behavior. In addition, current environmental and bioethical issues will be addressed. 
Credit: 1.0                  			Fee: $50                          			Grade: 9
Advanced Biology 
Advanced Biology is a rigorous, fast-paced course that explores living organisms through the themes of stability, change, and interactions. Students are expected to engage in higher-level problem solving and scientific reasoning through in-depth laboratory investigations, where they design experiments and collect, organize, and analyze data. Course topics include biochemistry, cell biology, genetics, evolution, organisms and populations, ecology, and behavior. In addition, students will examine current environmental and bioethical issues through discussion, research, and analysis.
Credit: 1.0                  			Fee: $50                          			Grade: 9
One of the following two Chemistry classes is required for sophomores:
Chemistry
Prerequisite: Biology 
A mixture of classroom and laboratory activities, with a focus on thinking tasks, problem solving techniques, and student-centered learning are utilized in teaching the fundamentals of chemistry. Topics include, but not limited to: lab safety, atomic structure, the periodic table, nuclear chemistry, origin of the elements, writing compounds and reactions, chemical bonding and nomenclature, stoichiometry, properties of gases, solutions, and acid-base reactions.  The student will learn the connection between theory and experimentation, how scientific concepts have developed through time, and how to conduct valid scientific experiments.
Credit: 1.0                   			Fee: $25            	            			Grade: 10
Advanced Chemistry
Prerequisite: Biology and teacher recommendation
The accelerated study of theoretical and practical applications of chemical principles is the objective of the advanced chemistry course. Students are expected to have a strong mathematics background and a desire for intellectual development and personal growth. Learning problem‑solving and critical thinking skills are major objectives of this course. Students will learn to make responsible decisions in the classroom and the laboratory in the process of integrating and applying scientific knowledge. Topics covered include measurement, atomic theory, bonding, nomenclature, chemical reactions, stoichiometry, gases, solutions, and acids and bases. This course has a fast pace in both the lecture and laboratory environment.
Credit: 1.0                 			Fee: $25            				Grade: 10
Elective Science Courses: 
Advanced Placement Biology
Prerequisite: Biology, Chemistry, and teacher recommendation
AP Biology is the equivalent of a college introductory biology course and is organized around four “Big Ideas.”  These big ideas encompass the core concepts, theories, and processes which apply to living organisms and biological systems.  Big Idea 1: The process of evolution drives the diversity and unity of life; Big Idea 2: Biological systems utilize energy and molecular building blocks to grow, to reproduce and to maintain homeostasis; Big Idea 3: Living systems store, retrieve, transmit, and respond to information essential to life processes; Big Idea 4: Biological systems interact, and these interactions possess complex properties.  AP Biology provides students with the concepts, knowledge, and skills necessary to deal critically with the rapidly advancing science of biology.  Throughout the course, emphasis is placed on laboratory skills and scientific practices which help students to develop techniques for asking questions and solving problems using the scientific method.  Each student will receive an AP Biology Study Book to accompany the course. This course is recommended for students who were successful in Biology and Advanced Chemistry.
Credit: 1.0 (Weighted)          		 Fee: $102 AP Fee + $33 Lab Fee     		Grade: 11‑12 
Forensics
Prerequisite: Biology and Chemistry.  This course surveys key topics in forensic science, including the application of the scientific process to forensic analysis, procedures and principles of crime scene investigation, physical and trace evidence, and the law from the perspective of the forensic scientist. Through laboratories, activities, analysis of fictional crime scenarios and study of select actual crimes, students learn about forensic tools, technical resources, forming and testing hypotheses, proper data collection, and responsible conclusions. Forensics is a full‑year course and is recommended as a companion course to Physics, AP Physics, AP Chemistry, AP Biology, AP Environmental Science or Human Anatomy and Physiology. 
Credit: 1.0               		    	Fee: $30             	        	    		Grade: 11-12
Genetics: Unlocking DNA
Prerequisite: Biology and Chemistry (any level)
The science of genetics is changing everyday and is an ever-changing force within our lives.  Students will investigate current research on DNA, today’s practical applications of DNA and the possibilities for the future.  There will be a strong emphasis on laboratory skills, long-term projects, and developing techniques to discover and problem solve. Topics will include, but will not be limited to, heredity, ancestry, health, behavior, DNA fingerprinting and ethical considerations behind this science of the future.
Credit: 0.5				Fee: $25					Grades: 10-12
Advanced Placement Chemistry
Prerequisite: Advanced Chemistry, Algebra II, and teacher recommendation
The motivated, science‑oriented student who is successful in Advanced Chemistry and who intends to pursue a career in a science‑related field should enroll in AP Chemistry. This is a college‑level general chemistry course and requires a strong mathematics background.  Teaching methods include classroom lectures and activities, and guided-inquiry laboratory experiences. Due to the length of guided-inquiry laboratory experiments, students will be required periodically to finish laboratory work outside of assigned class time periods.
Credit:1.0 	    			Fee: $102 AP Fee + $20 Lab Fee		 Grade:11‑12
Physics
Prerequisite: Biology, Chemistry, Algebra II
Physics is the oldest of the modern sciences. It is our attempt to model and describe the world around us at the most fundamental level possible. The topics of study for introductory physics include, but are not limited to: motion, forces, projectiles, circular motion, energy, sound and waves, electric charges, and electric circuits. This course is designed to support in-depth, student-led inquiry of topics where critical thinking and problem solving are emphasized. A large portion of class time will be devoted to student lab investigations, student discussion, projects, and lab challenges.  
Credit: 1.0                    			Fee: $15            	     	       		Grade: 11‑12
Advanced Placement Physics 1
Prerequisite: Biology, Chemistry, Algebra II, and Teacher Recommendation
This course reflects the new AP Physics program designed by the College Board. This Algebra-based course is equivalent to a first semester of college Physics. Topics include Newtonian mechanics, work, energy, power, mechanical waves and fluids. This course is designed to support in-depth, student-led inquiry of topics where critical thinking and problem solving are emphasized. Students should be comfortable using mathematics (Precalculus is recommended).
Credit: 1.0	         Fee: $10 + $99 AP Fee         		Grade: 11‑12
Advanced Placement Physics 2
Prerequisite: Biology, Chemistry, Algebra II, Advanced Placement Physics 1 and Teacher Recommendation
As part of the College Board’s new AP Physics program, this second year is equivalent to a second semester college Physics course. Students need to complete AP Physics 1 before taking this course. Topics include thermodynamics, electricity and magnetism, as well as waves, optics, atomic physics and nuclear physics. This course is designed to support in-depth, student-led inquiry of topics where critical thinking and problem solving are emphasized. Students should be comfortable using mathematics (Precalculus is recommended).
Credit: 1.0 	 	Fee: $10 + $99 AP Fee                         	Grade: 12
Environmental Science
Prerequisite: Biology and Chemistry
This course offers a comprehensive understanding of major environmental issues exploring water quality in Indian Hill through the interactions of energy and matter with the Earth’s spheres. Topics covered include evolution and adaptation in populations, biodiversity, ecosystems, population dynamics, atmospheric properties and currents, geologic events and processes, oceanic currents and patterns, surface and groundwater flow patterns, and cryosphere. In collaboration with the Green Acres Water Quality Education Center, the course integrates the Indian Hill Water Quality Project. Students actively monitor four local watersheds biweekly, conducting field research, laboratory investigations, and projects. The culmination of this work results in a report presented to the Village Council, accompanied by recommendations. The Village Council Presentation is mandatory for all students and occurs on the first Wednesday in May.
Credit:  1.0               			Fee: $35                 	          		Grade: 11-12
Advanced Placement Environmental Science
Prerequisite:  Biology, Chemistry and teacher recommendation
This is a college level Environmental Science course.  Topics include; the history of the environmental movement, the interrelationship of organisms, biogeochemical cycles, characteristics of ecosystems, water resources and water pollution, air pollution, weather and climate, land use, populations, extinctions, environmental legislation, environmental economics and environmental ethics.  Students will utilize their critical thinking skills and draw inferences from a wide array of sources.  This course utilizes a lecture based approach with supporting field and laboratory activities.
Credit: 1.0	 			Fee: $102 AP Fee + $20 Lab Fee       		Grade: 11-12
Anatomy and Physiology
Prerequisite: Biology, Advanced Chemistry, and teacher recommendation
This course examines the structure of the human body system by system and explores the mechanisms by which the body functions.  A basic understanding of biology and chemical reactions is needed, as this is designed to be an intermediate level course including principles of cell/tissue function and biochemistry.  Lab work will be extensive, including required animal dissection, study of models, and experiments revolving around the functions of the human body.  Evaluation will include tests, reports, lab work, readings and participation.
Credit:  1.0                   			Fee: $36           	            	            		Grade: 11-12
Social Studies
The Social Studies Department is committed to helping students become responsible citizens of the world by providing relevant history and Social Sciences courses.
PROGRAM GOALS
Intellectual Development
Students will possess knowledge of geography, economics, psychology, American history and government, political science, and world/European history
Students will obtain, organize, and synthesize information from multiple sources
Students will apply processes relating to contextualization, cause/effect, drawing conclusions, justifying positions, comparing/contrasting, and deciphering fact from opinion
Personal Growth
Students will increase/understand:
global awareness
multicultural sensitivity
integrating change
historical perspective
individual responsibility and a positive work ethic.
Social Responsibility
Students will resolve conflict situations through compromise, participate in community service, and work effectively in groups.
One of the following is required for freshmen:
College Prep Modern European History
This course will be a survey of European history from the 17th Century to the present.  Topics discussed include Absolutism, the Scientific Revolution, Enlightenment, French Revolution, the Industrial Revolution, Imperialism, WWI, the rise of dictators, WWII, the Cold War, the decline of communism, the end of colonialism, and the rise of independent nations. As students study historical eras, they will consider the influence of geographic settings, cultural perspectives, economic systems, and various forms of government. Students will develop a deeper understanding of their role as citizens and continue to expand their command of social studies skills and methods.    
 Credit 1.0                                                                                               	          			Grade: 9 
or
Advanced Modern European History
Prerequisite: Prepared for the extensive amount of reading, writing, and rigor of an advanced level History course. This advanced course will be a survey of European history from the 17 Century to the present.  Topics discussed include Absolutism, the Scientific Revolution, Enlightenment, French Revolution, the Industrial Revolution, Imperialism, WWI, the rise of dictators, WWII, the Cold War, the decline of communism, the end of colonialism and the rise of independent nations. As students study historical eras, they will consider the influence of geographic settings, cultural perspectives, economic systems, and various forms of government. Students will develop a deeper understanding of their role as citizens and continue to expand their command of social studies skills and methods. Reading assignments will be at a higher level than the CP course. Students taking this course are expected to handle an increased breadth of content knowledge and more complex reading, writing, and research assignments. This advanced course prepares students for future advanced placement history courses.
 Credit 1.0                                                                                              	          			Grade: 9
One of the following is required for sophomores:
United States History
Tenth-grade students continue the chronological study of the United States’ history from 1877 to the present, emphasizing domestic and foreign affairs (post-reconstruction through the 20th century).  As students study historical eras, they consider the geographic, cultural, economic, and governmental changes that have occurred.  Students develop a deeper understanding of their role as citizens and continue to expand their command of social studies skills and methods.                                        Fee: United States Air Force Museum Trip $10
Credit 1.0                                                                                          				Grade 10
 or
Advanced Placement U.S. History
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation
Advanced Placement United States History was established to provide students with the analytical skills and factual knowledge necessary to deal critically with the people, events, and themes in United States History. The program’s requirements and rigor are designed to prepare students for intermediate and upper-level history courses offered at the college level. Students taking this course will be exposed to the evolution and development of “The Great American Experiment.” This course is developed around the themes provided by the College Board for Advanced Placement United States History. The students are expected to do extensive work outside of class. The AP United States review guide is required. Students will develop note-taking, interpretation of primary source documents, research projects, essay examinations, and critical analysis. 
Credit: 1.0 	   	AP fee: AMSCO Review Text $30 + AP Test Fee $102 		Grade: 10
Juniors are required to take U.S. Government or A.P. U.S. Government.
U.S. Government
The course provides an analytical perspective on the foundations, evolution, and contemporary expression of the American system of government and politics. Core constitutional ideals of popular sovereignty, limited government, separation of powers, checks and balances, judicial review, and federalism provide the framework for understanding the rights and responsibilities that adhere to citizenship.  Federalism and the three branches of government will be the main areas of focus.  The students will study the Constitution and its impact on everyday life by completing a project utilizing contemporary news documents.  A variety of thinking skills will be employed as students study historical documents, landmark Supreme Court cases, and contemporary political news. Students will also be exposed to an overview of the federal government’s use of monetary & fiscal policy in addition to the impact of federalism on financial policies.
Credit: 0.5      										Grade: 11 
Or
AP U.S. Government and Politics 
Prerequisite: Teacher recommendation
AP U.S. Government and Politics provides a college-level, nonpartisan introduction to key political concepts, ideas, institutions, policies, interactions, roles, and behaviors that characterize the constitutional system and political culture of the United States. Students will study U.S. foundational documents, Supreme Court decisions, and other texts and visuals to understand the relationships and interactions among political institutions, processes, and behaviors. They will also engage in disciplinary practices that require them to read and interpret data, make comparisons and applications, and develop evidence-based arguments.
Credit: 0.5 	   	AP fee: $102 + $30 AMSCO Review Text       			Grade: 11-12
One of the following electives are required for Juniors and/or Seniors. 
Global Cultures and Issues
This one-semester course focuses on non-Western cultures from their own perspectives.  It also examines the growing interdependence of all world cultures as globalization continues in the contemporary world.  Core topics include the historical and geographic roots of wealth, inequality, and racism; the origins and impacts of religions and ideologies; population dynamics and immigration; the challenges and progress made by developing nations since decolonization; and contemporary world issues.
Credit 0.5                                                                                                             			Grade 11-12
AP Human Geography
AP Human Geography is a year-long course designed to introduce students to the study of geography on a local, national, and global scale.  Students will cultivate their understanding of human geography through data and geographic analyses as they explore topics like patterns and spatial organization, human impacts and interactions with their environment, and spatial processes and societal changes.  Units of study include (1) Thinking Geographically, (2) Population and Migration, (3) Cultural Patterns and Processes, (4) Political Patterns and Processes, (5) Agriculture and Rural Land Use, (6) Cities and Urban Land Use, and (7) Industrialization and Economic Development.
 Credit: 1.0	    		AP fee: $102 + $30 AMSCO Review Text    			Grade: 11-12
AP World History:  Modern
In AP World History: Modern, students investigate significant events, individuals, developments, and processes from 1200 to the present. Students develop and use the same skills, practices, and methods employed by historians: analyzing primary and secondary sources, developing historical arguments; making historical connections; and utilizing reasoning about comparison, causation, and continuity and change over time. The course provides six themes that students explore throughout the course to connect historical developments in different times and places: humans and the environment, cultural developments and interactions, governance, economic systems, social interactions and organization, and technology and innovation.
Credit:  1.0           	              	AP Fee: $102 + $30 AMSCO Review Text                                  Grade: 11-12 
Junior and Senior Electives: 
Psychology
Psychology is a valuable, semester-long class for any student interested in understanding themselves and others, designed to introduce the fascinating study of human behavior and mental processes. Through various engaging projects and activities, students will learn how the body affects the mind and how thinking affects behavior. This knowledge can positively influence decision-making, communicating more effectively, improving relationships, and coping with stressful situations. This course exposes students to topics ranging from the latest sleep and dream theories to the dangers of conformity and obedience; from developing our unique personalities to the most cutting-edge brain science. This wide-ranging background prepares students for success in many areas, including business, law, marketing, sales, sports, forensics, media, medicine, health services, teaching, and interview performance.
Credit: 0.5      										Grade: 10-12\
AP Psychology
AP Psychology is an engaging full-year, college-level course designed to introduce students to the fascinating study of human behavior and mental processes.  Through a variety of stimulating activities and projects, this class actively engages students in critical thinking that enhances their personal and society-level decision making, which in turn has a profoundly positive impact on their overall health and happiness. While analyzing prominent psychological studies, students will learn to evaluate and distinguish evidence-based statements from individuals’ opinions effectively. As a survey course, AP Psychology exposes students to topics ranging from the biological nature of sleep and dreams to the dangers of stereotyping and prejudice, from the cognitive strategies that enhance our memory to the specific behaviors that characterize personality disorders. This wide-ranging background prepares students for success in many areas, including business, law, marketing, sales, sports, forensics, media, teaching, and interview performance. While the course is designed to prepare students for the AP Psychology exam in May, it will also encourage students’ self-awareness, intellectual development, and social intelligence.
 Credit:  1.0                     		AP Fee: $102 + $30 AMSCO Review Text    	              	Grade: 11-12
Positive Psychology
Prerequisite: Psychology or AP Psychology
One of the newest and most popular subfields in psychology, positive psychology is the scientific study of what makes life most worth living. Positive psychology teaches us how to harness the power of shifting one’s perspective to maximize the potential for happiness in many of our everyday behaviors. Throughout this course, students will explore the latest psychological studies that reveal how to be happier, how to feel less stressed, and how to thrive in high school and beyond. Students will actively engage with course material by critiquing studies, discussing research, and applying methods for improving well-being to their daily lives. 
Topics of study include: joy, optimism, life satisfaction, resilience, healthy relationships, kindness, meaning, compassion (as well as self-compassion), gratitude, elevation, positive interventions, and lifestyle change. 
These topics are studied in order to learn how to help people flourish and live their best lives.
Credit: 0.5      										Grade: 11-12
Economics
This is a great class for all students as it explores many of the basic financial situations and challenges that all students will encounter throughout their adult lives.  It is also an excellent introduction to much of the vocabulary and terminology encountered in many future academic classes in economics, business, marketing, finance, and management. Fundamental economic concepts include scarcity, opportunity costs, marginal thinking, and supply and demand.  Those concepts and many others will be applied to their impact in both personal decision-making and a market economy. The class examines a variety of areas impacting personal financial management.  There will be an introduction to the discipline of wealth management, the importance of budgeting, and the effect of interest rates. 
Credit: 0.5                                                                                         				 Grade: 10‑12
AP Microeconomics
AP Microeconomics is a semester course equivalent to a one-semester introductory college course in economics.  This class introduces students to the principles of economics that apply to the functions of individual economic decision-makers. The course also develops students’ familiarity with the operation of product and factor markets, distributions of income, market failure, and the government’s role in promoting greater efficiency and equity in the economy. Students learn to use graphs, charts, and data to analyze, describe, and explain economic concepts.  This class provides excellent opportunities to develop abstract thinking skills useful across the curriculum and throughout life.
Credit: 0.5     			 $102 AP exam fee 			Grade: 11‑12
AP Macroeconomics
AP Macroeconomics is a semester course that introduces students to the principles that apply to an economic system as a whole. It is equivalent to a one-semester introductory college course in economics. The course places particular emphasis on the study of national income and price-level determination. It also develops students’ familiarity with economic performance measures, the financial sector, stabilization policies, economic growth, and international economics. Students learn to use graphs, charts, and data to analyze, describe, and explain economic concepts.  This class helps students become familiar with the commonly described economic activity elements in today’s society and develops abstract thinking skills useful across the curriculum and throughout life.
Credit: 0.5      			Fee: $102 AP exam fee 			Grade: 11‑12
Learning through Leadership
What makes a leader? This course is a study of great leadership qualities and the practices that help to make leaders effective. Students will actively participate in learning through book discussions, collaborative presentations, service opportunities, and guest speaker experiences to further develop their leadership capacity. Service-learning is an exciting and integral part of the course, and students who are enrolled will be required to fulfill the service requirement at their assigned service site.  Students provide their own mode of transportation to service sites. 
Credit: 0.5                                                                	                          		                             Grade 12
Special Education
Despite individual differences, most students learn through traditional methods; however, these methods are not always adequate to meet the needs of some students.  The Special Education Department exists to help individuals achieve an appropriate education through specially designed instruction.  Eligibility for all services is determined by both federal and State of Ohio rules and regulations.
Theatre 
The theatre program offerings have been designed under the premise that a performer needs a well-rounded background both on and off stage. The two semester classes integrate both areas. They work to provide the full picture of theatre as a truly collaborative art form.
Introduction To Theatre I
This class will serve as an introduction to all aspects of theatre. It will cover both the performance and the technical aspects of theatre (scenery, lighting, costume, sound). This class will use lectures, games, projects, movies, and hands-on activities to survey the broad field of theatre. Topics to be covered include principles of theatrical design, improvisational comedy, theatrical professions, musical theatre, dramatic literature, acting games, and more. There will also be field trips (s) to see theatrical productions in the Cincinnati area.  
Credit:  0.5										Grades:  9-12
Acting 1/Theatre Arts II
Prerequisite: Theatre I or Permission of Instructor
This class serves as a continuation of Introduction to Theatre. It will focus on some of the finer aspects of performing. The class will utilize lectures, games, projects, movies and hands-on activities. Special projects in the student’s area of interest (performance based) will be undertaken, and a more thorough understanding of the theatrical process will be obtained.
Credit:  0.5										Grades 9-12
Theatre Arts III (formerly Advanced Acting and Directing)
Prerequisite: Permission of Instructor
This class is a full year, ensemble class that will focus on mastering the fundamentals of acting through constant, individual and collaborative performances. Monologue and scene work will be drawn from both contemporary and classical sources. There will also be opportunities to begin to learn the craft of directing through scene work. This class will culminate in a final, fully-mounted production with other potential performances throughout the year. Advanced Acting and Directing may be repeated for credit.  
Course expectations:         
Read two plays per quarter from a provided list and fill out the required play reports.
Attend two approved performances per quarter. Once must be a theatrical production at an approved theatre and the other may be from an allied art (dance, music, performance art).
Audition for every IHHS main-stage show, accepting any role cast in.
Maintain an acting journal as directed by the instructor.
Credit:  0.5										Grades 10-12 
Costume, Makeup and Fashion Design
This class will serve as an exploration into the world of Costume and Fashion design. This course will use the designing process to think creatively, while also giving them practical experience in the avenue of Costume, Fashion, or Makeup Design.  Students will learn industry skills such as designing, character interpretation, fabric choice, texture, color psychology, shape, practicality, time period, and research skills. This is all a conceptual class and students do not need any sewing or drawing experience. We will use storyboards, sketches, and renderings which will also help build a portfolio for the students who take this course.  There is no prerequisite for this class and may be repeated for credit. 
Credit: 0.5					Fee: $15					Grades 9-12
Technical Theatre
Dive into the behind-the-scenes magic of theatre with our Technical Theatre course, open to students in grades 9-12. This hands-on class covers everything from set design and construction to sound and lighting techniques, providing a comprehensive overview of the technical aspects that bring stage performances to life. Students will gain practical experience by participating in real-life theatre productions, learning how to operate state-of-the-art equipment and software while mastering the art of stage management and operations. Whether you're aspiring to a career in the performing arts or simply interested in the technology behind the curtain, Technical Theatre offers valuable skills in creativity, problem-solving, and collaboration. Join us to explore your passion for theatre from a new perspective and contribute to the unforgettable experience of live performances.
Credit: 0.5										Grades 9-12
Dance
Contemporary Ballet
This class addresses the fundamentals of ballet technique, but incorporates elements of both classical Ballet and Modern dance. Students will cover foundational ballet and modern dance elements and then explore how the two styles can be merged to create the genre of Contemporary Ballet. Class is focused on efficient alignment, developing and improving traditional ballet line, fluency in the classical vocabulary, increased understanding of the coordination, rhythm, and phrasing aspects of ballet technique, and how all relate to and support other dance forms/techniques. Students will also address basic historical significance of Ballet and Modern dance in the world. 
Credit: 0.5										Grades 9-12
Fundamentals of Dance
This course will introduce students to the fundamental elements, techniques, and vocabulary in several different genres of dance. Development of body and spatial awareness, strength, flexibility, coordination and proper alignment within these various dance forms will be learned, with an emphasis on how dance connects with rhythm and various types of music. The students will also cover basic dance history pertinent to the genres discussed, and explore intro-level choreography utilizing creative movement. Fundamentals of Dance is designed for students interested in dance as an art form, providing accessibility to the world of dance for all, novice to advanced. This class strives to promote a lifelong interest in dance, creativity, physical fitness, and overall wellness.
Credit: 0.5										Grades 9-12
Jazz/Hip Hop Fusion
This course is designed to introduce students to the various elements of Jazz Dance - the history, terminology, technique, core movement concepts, and prominent Jazz Dance figures - and also explore its connection to Hip Hop dance. Students will experience all of these elements through dancing, observation, research, discussion, and choreography at an introductory level.
Credit: 0.5							Grades 9-12
CAREER/TECHNICAL EDUCATION
Approximately 30 majors are offered to juniors and seniors through the Great Oaks Institute of Technology and Career Development. The courses offered at the career campuses provide a solid foundation for successful participation in the world of work because it emphasizes the integration of vocational and academic skills. Each year approximately 97.6% of those who complete a Great Oaks career/technical program enter a full or part-time post-secondary education program upon high school graduation.
Articulation Agreement: Students who plan to attend college may receive credit for courses taken at Great Oaks. Articulation agreements are in place with many two-year post‑secondary institutions, such as UC Raymond Walters, UC Clermont College, Cincinnati State Technical and Community College, Northern Kentucky University, and others. Students normally enter a career major after two years at Indian Hill High School. Students who attend the career campus may earn 7 credits per year.
Credits are to be earned as follows:
Graduation requirements are listed below for Indian Hill students who attend a career campus for their third and fourth year of high school.
Students are provided transportation from Indian Hill High School to the career campus. Classes start at 8:00 a.m. and end at 2:15 p.m. Students are transported back to Indian Hill for extracurricular activities or to their homes. 
The Live Oaks Career Campus (Milford) offers a wide variety of career programs as listed below; however, students may attend the Scarlet Oaks career campus if Live Oaks does not offer the desired program. If you are interested in more information or have any questions, please contact the Counseling Department. 
The following programs are available:
LIVE OAKS
All programs are 2 years unless stated
Animal Science and Management
Automotive Technology
Biotechnology/Forensic Studies
Business Management & Administrative Services
Computer Assisted Drafting
Computer Service Technician & Networking
Construction Framing and Finishing Technology
Cosmetology
Early Childhood Education
E-Marketing
Health Technology
Heating, Ventilating & Air Conditioning
Heavy Equipment Operations Engineering
Interactive Media
Restaurant Operations
Veterinary Assisting
SCARLET OAKS
Culinary Arts & Hospitality Services
Dental Assisting
Digital TV Production Technology
Firefighting/Emergency Medical Service
Industrial Diesel Mechanics
Law Enforcement
Masonry
Plumbing
Secondary Practical Nursing
Sports Rehabilitation Therapy
Surgical Assisting
Teaching Professions (seniors only)
Welding (seniors only)
Travel, Leisure, and Hospitality
LAUREL OAKS
Agricultural/Industrial Diesel Mechanics
Aviation Maintenance Technician
Equine Science and Management
Natural Resources Technology
Pre-Engineering Technology
APPENDIX ONE                                                                                                   	    (copied from the web)                                                                                                                                                 http://www.ncaaclearinghouse.net
National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
A central clearinghouse will certify your athletics eligibility for Divisions I and II. Here is some important information that will assist you.
APPENDIX TWO
CRITERIA FOR DETERMINING CLASS STATUS 
Grade 9 ‑ Students who are enrolled in freshman English and have completed less than 4.5 credits are considered ninth graders.
Grade 10 ‑ Students who have earned at least 4.5 credits and have completed and received credit in freshman English are considered sophomores.
Grade 11 ‑ Students who have earned at least 10 credits and have completed and received credit in sophomore English are considered juniors.
Grade 12 ‑ Students who have earned at least 15.5 credits and have completed and received credit in junior English are considered seniors.
APPENDIX THREE
GRADUATION HONORS AVAILABLE TO STUDENTS